* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)117129**   
**Ordinance Number: 123610**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities under Seattle's Building and Construction Codes; repealing sections of Ordinance 123453 and amending Sections 22.900B.050, 22.900C.010, and 22.900D.145 of the Seattle Municipal Code to make technical corrections.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 31, 2011   
**Vote:** 7-9 (Excused: O'Brien, Absent: Burgess)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 3, 2011   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 3, 2011   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 21, 2011   
**Committee:** Built Environment   
**Sponsor:** CLARK   
**Committee Recommendation:** PASS   
**Date of Committee Recommendation:** May 25, 2011   
**Committee Vote:** 3 (Clark, Burgess, Bagshaw) - 0   
  
**Index Terms:** FEES, PERMITS, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, ZONING, BUDGET  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Ordinance 123453](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=123453&s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=/~public/cbory.htm&r=1&f=G)  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/117129.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)117129  
  
**Electronic Copy: ** [PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123610](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123610.pdf)  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and  
    activities under Seattle's Building and Construction Codes;  
    repealing sections of Ordinance 123453 and amending Sections  
    22.900B.050, 22.900C.010, and 22.900D.145 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code to make technical corrections.  
  
    WHEREAS, by Ordinance 123453, effective January 1, 2011, the  
    City Council revised Chapter 22.900 of the Seattle Municipal  
    Code, related to fees and charges for permits and activities  
    under Seattle's Building and Construction Codes; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the technical corrections proposed in the ordinance  
    herein are necessary to accurately and completely record the  
    amendments to Seattle Municipal Code 22.900 intended and  
    approved by the City Council; NOW THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1. Sections 9, 11 and 15 of Ordinance 123453 are  
    repealed.  
  
    Section 2. Section 22.900B.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    as last amended by Ordinance 119766, is hereby amended as  
    follows:  
  
    22.900B.050 Refunds((  .  ))  
  
    Applicants may apply for refunds  of fees collected  
    pursuant to the Fee Schedule  when an application or  
    permit is withdrawn or canceled prior to the completion of the  
    review and inspection process. ((  The Director  
    shall establish reasonable procedures for refund requests,  
    including limitations on the time at which refund requests may  
    be submitted.  )) To request a refund, the  
    applicant shall submit a request to the Director on a refund  
    request form. ((  The Director shall determine  
    whether a refund is appropriate according to this subtitle.)  
    )  The Director shall establish by  
    Director's Rule reasonable procedures and standards for refund  
    requests, including but not limited to limitations on the time  
    for submitting refund requests and the amount of the refund,  
    considering among other factors, the stage of permit review  
    and type of permit.    
  
    Section 3. Section 22.900C.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    as last amended by Ordinance 123246, is hereby amended as  
    follows:  
  
    22.900C.010 Land use fees((  .  ))  
  
    A. Land Use Review Fees. The land use review fee for Master  
    Use Permits, Council and Hearing Examiner approvals,  
    environmentally critical area approvals and other  
    miscellaneous reviews, research and services shall be charged  
    according to Table C-1 unless otherwise specified.  Land  
    use review that is subject to the Land Use hourly rate may  
    include, but is not limited to; review time for more than one  
    technical reviewer, pre-application services, project review,  
    permit issuance, and continued review during the building  
    permit and construction approval phases of the project. Land  
    Use hourly rate also includes time spent preparing for and  
    defending a Director's decision or recommendation if appealed  
    to the Hearing Examiner.    
  
    B. Fee Components of Land Use Review Fees. Land use review  
    fees include a minimum land use review fee and may include an  
    hourly fee as specified in Table C-1. The minimum land use  
    review fee covers the number of review hours specified in  
    Table C-1. Only one minimum review fee shall be charged,  
    except an additional minimum review fee shall be charged at  
    the time of MUP applications for projects that have completed  
    the early design process. Additional hours shall be charged at  
    the rate specified in the Table.  
  
    C. Time of payment.  
  
    1. Pre-application Conference Fee. The fee for land use pre-  
    application conference specified in Table C-1 shall be paid  
    prior to the conference.  
  
    2. Minimum Land Use Review Fee. The minimum land use review  
    fee specified in Table C-1 shall be paid at application  
    submittal. For projects entailing hourly fees in addition to  
    the minimum land use review fee, the Director ((   
    may  )) will  require ((   
    an additional deposit to be made at application submittal and  
    ))periodic progress payments to be made during  
    the application review process.  
  
    3. The following fees and amounts are due at the times  
    specified below:  
  
     a. Monthly billing for hourly fees accrued above the  
    minimum fee will be payable upon receipt of invoice.   
  
    ((  a.  )) b.  All  
    outstanding ((  land use  ))  
    DPD  fees shall be paid prior to the publication of a  
    decision or recommendation on the application and prior to  
    issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall  
    be reconciled and all outstanding balances are due and payable  
    on demand. In cases where no published decision or  
    recommendation is required, fees owed shall be paid prior to  
    issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.  
  
    ((  b.  )) c.  For Council  
    and Hearing Examiner approvals, the fee due ((   
    to date plus an estimated charge for future  
    )) for  work up to and through final  
    Council or Hearing Examiner action shall be paid at the time  
    the recommendation of the Director is available for public  
    review and before it is forwarded for final action.  In  
    addition to periodic monthly billings for actual charges  
    during the Council or Hearing Examiner proceedings, after  
    ((  After  )) final Council or  
    Hearing Examiner action, the actual charges ((   
    and estimated fee paid shall be reconciled  
    ))and all outstanding  fee  balances ((  
     shall be  ))are due and payable  
    upon demand, and prior to issuance of the permit.  
  
    ((  c.  )) d.  For early  
    design guidance projects entailing hourly fees in addition to  
    the minimum land use review fee, all outstanding fees shall be  
    paid upon application for the master use permit. Any hours  
    paid by the early design guidance minimum land use review fee  
    but not spent at the time of application for the master use  
    permit shall be credited toward land use review of the master  
    use permit application.  
  
    D. Additional Review.  
  
    In addition to the fees set in Table C-1, review time required  
    on a project prior to, or in lieu of, an application will be  
    charged hourly as determined by the Director.  
  
    E. Correction ((  Penalty  )) Fee  
    .  
  
    After written notice to the applicant, a ((   
    penalty fee  )) Correction Fee  of ((  
     $300.00  )) $320  may be  
    charged for each additional correction cycle required due to  
    lack of response from the applicant.  
  
**  
**  
  
Table C-1 - LAND USE FEES  
  
**A. MASTER USE PERMIT** **, ENVIRONMENTAL CRITICAL AREAS, CITY COUNCIL and HEARING EXAMINER APPROVALS **  
  
(( ~~Review Hours Covered by Minimum Fee ~~))  
  
(( ~~Type of Land Use Review ~~))  
  
(( ~~Minimum Fee ~~))  
  
(( ~~Hourly Fee^1^~~))  
  
(( ~~General ~~))  
  
(( ~~Low-income Housing^1^~~))  
  
(( ~~For Items 1-14 unless otherwise noted ~~))  
  
(( ~~$2,500 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~10 ~~))  
  
(( ~~24 ~~))  
  
Hours worked beyond those covered by minimum will be charged the Land Use hourly rate, unless otherwise noted, and payable at time of invoice.  
  
**Type of Land Use Review**  
  
**Minimum Fee**  
  
General - first 10 hours of review  
  
Land use Hourly x 10  
  
Low-Income Housing - first 24 hours of review^1^  
  
Land use Hourly x 10  
  
1.  
  
Administrative conditional uses (ACUs)  
  
ACUs for community centers, child care centers, adult care centers, private schools, religious facilities and public and private libraries in single family and multi-family zones shall be charged a minimum fee of $1,620 for the first 20 hours. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate of $250 per hour. This exception applies when the application is for an ACU only, or an ACU combined with a variance application.  
  
2.  
  
Design review, except as provided in item15  
  
3.  
  
Environmental reviews (SEPA), including projects with more than one (( ~~(1) ~~)) addressed site  
  
(( ~~a. A 40 hour deposit is required for DSs and EISs; a 10 hour deposit is required for EIS addenda and SEIS ~~))  
  
(( ~~b. A flat fee of $430 shall be assessed by DPD for Determinations of Non-significance (DNSs) and Mitigated Determinations of Non-significance (MDNSs) for projects that included City of Seattle landmarks and projects located within a special review or landmark district; no hourly fees shall be assessed for these types of approvals unless DPD is the lead agency. ~~))  
  
4.  
  
Environmentally critical areas (ECA)  
  
\a. Environmentally Critical Areas variance^2^  
  
\b. ECA Exception  
  
\c. Environmentally Critical Areas Administrative Conditional Use  
  
(( ~~5. ~~  
  
~~Plan shoreline permit -- See Council concept approvals ~~))  
  
/ / / / /  
  
(( ~~6. ~~))5.  
  
Shoreline permits  
  
\a. Substantial development permits  
  
\b. Variances^\\ 2\\ ^and conditional uses  
  
(( ~~c. Revisions (not due to required conditions) -- See Item \#39 of this table ~~))  
  
(( ~~7. ~~))6.  
  
Short subdivisions ^3^  
  
(( ~~8. ~~))7.  
  
Special exceptions  
  
(( ~~9. ~~))8.  
  
Variances^2\\ ^  
  
Variances for community centers, child care centers, adult care centers, private schools, religious facilities and public and private libraries in single family and multi-family zones shall be charged a minimum fee of $1,620 for the first 20 hours. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate of $250 per hour. This exception applies when the application is for a variance only, or a variance combined only with an ACU application.  
  
(( ~~10. ~~))9.  
  
Concept approvals including, but not limited to planned community/ residential development, public projects, City facilities, plan shoreline developments, other general development plans  
  
(( ~~11. ~~))10.  
  
Council conditional uses  
  
(( ~~12. ~~))11.  
  
Full subdivisions^4^  
  
(( ~~13. ~~))12.  
  
Major Institution -- 40 hour deposit is required for Master Plans  
  
(( ~~14. ~~))13.  
  
Zoning map changes and rezones  
  
/ / / / /  
  
style='width:463.5pt'\>  
  
  
  
**B. MISCELLANEOUS HOURLY LAND USE REVIEWS, RESEARCH, AND OTHER**  
  
SERVICES  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~Type of Land Use Review ~~))  
  
(( ~~Minimum Land Use Review Fee ~~))  
  
(( ~~Hourly Land Use Review Fee ~~))  
  
(( ~~Review Hours Covered by Minimum Fee ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
Hours worked beyond those covered by minimum will be charged the Land  
  
Use hourly rate, unless otherwise noted, and payable at time of invoice.  
  
..TX:  
  
**Type of Land Use Review**  
  
**Minimum Land Use Review Fee**  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~15. ~~))14.  
  
Concurrency  
  
Reserved  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~16. ~~  
  
~~Curb cuts as a separate component ~~  
  
..TX:  
  
~~a. Single-family residential ~~  
  
(( ~~$67.50 ~~))  
  
(( ~~None ~~))  
  
(( ~~None ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
~~b. Other than single-family residential ~~))  
  
(( ~~$134.00 ~~))  
  
(( ~~None ~~))  
  
(( ~~None ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~17. ~~  
  
~~Design Review for Tree Protection ^5^~~  
  
..TX:  
  
~~a. Design review required by SMC 25.11.070 or 25.11.080 to protect~~  
  
exceptional tree when no other land use reviews are required  
  
(( ~~$1,000 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 per hour ~~))  
  
(( ~~10 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
~~b. Design review elected by applicant for tree protection ~~))  
  
(( ~~$0 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 per hour ~~))  
  
(( ~~10 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
15.  
  
Design Review for Tree Protection ^5^  
  
..TX:  
  
\a. Design review required by SMC 25.11.070 or 25.11.080 to protect  
  
exceptional tree when no other land use reviews are required  
  
Land Use Hourly x 10  
  
..TX:  
  
\b. Design review elected by applicant for tree protection  
  
Land Use Hourly x 10  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~18. ~~  
  
~~Early design guidance ~~))  
  
(( ~~$1,500 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~6 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
16.  
  
Early design guidance  
  
Land Use Hourly x 10  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~19. ~~  
  
~~Environmental review sign^6^~~))  
  
(( ~~$370 ~~))  
  
(( ~~None ~~))  
  
(( ~~None ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
/ / / / /  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~20. ~~  
  
~~Establishing use for the record ~~))  
  
(( ~~$500 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~2 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
17.  
  
Establishing use for the record: Refer to Table D-2 \#9 for additional  
  
fees that may apply to this permit type  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~21. ~~  
  
~~Intake appointments for land use reviews; fee is charged for each~~  
  
occurrence ))  
  
###### (( ~~Base Fee x 1 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~22. ~~  
  
~~Interpretations^7^~~  
  
~~a. Interpretations ~~  
  
~~b. Interpretations requested after publication of Director's report ~~  
  
~~c. Major Institution master plan ~~))  
  
###### (( ~~$1,500 ~~))  
  
######   
  
###### (( ~~$2,000 ~~))  
  
######   
  
###### (( ~~$500 ~~))  
  
###### (( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
######   
  
###### (( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
######   
  
###### (( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
~~6 ~~  
  
~~8 ~~  
  
~~2 ~~  
  
..TX:  
  
18.  
  
Land Use Code Interpretations^6^  
  
Land Use Hourly x 10  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~23. ~~  
  
~~Letters for detailed zoning analysis or permit research ~~))  
  
(( ~~$1,000 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~4 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
19.  
  
Letters for detailed zoning analysis or permit research  
  
Land Use Hourly x 4  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~24. ~~  
  
~~Lot Boundary Adjustment, Sidewalk Cafe, Temporary Use \> 4 weeks ~~))  
  
(( ~~$1,250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~5 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
20.  
  
Lot Boundary Adjustment, Temporary Use \> 4 weeks  
  
Land Use Hourly x 5  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~25. ~~  
  
~~Major Institution - review of annual plan ~~))  
  
(( ~~$1,500 per year ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~6 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
21.  
  
Major Institution - review of annual plan  
  
Land Use Hourly x 6  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~26. ~~  
  
~~Major phased development permit - minor amendment ~~))  
  
(( ~~$500 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~2 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
  
  
22.  
  
Major phased development permit - minor amendment  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
..TX:  
  
  
  
(( ~~27. ~~))23.  
  
Neighborhood planning  
  
Reserved  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~28. ~~))24.  
  
Noise survey review and variance  
  
See Table D-2 and Section  
  
22.900F.020  
  
..TX:  
  
/ / / / /  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~29. ~~  
  
~~Notice. All notice is charged based upon type for each occurrence8 ~~  
  
~~a. Land use information bulletin (GMR notice ~~  
  
~~b. Posting large sign or placard ~~  
  
~~c. Mailed notice ~~  
  
~~d. Landslide prone notice ~~  
  
~~e. DJC decision publication ~~  
  
~~f. Neighborhood newspaper decision publication ~~  
  
~~g. Public meeting room rental)) ~~  
  
(( ~~$177.00 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$102.00 ~~))  
  
(( ~~Base Fee x1 ~~))  
  
(( ~~Base Fee x1 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$160 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$160 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$50 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~30. ~~  
  
width=265 colspan=8 valign=top style='width:198.75pt;padding:0in 0in 0in 0in'\>  
  
~~Open space remainder lots and surplus state property ~~))  
  
(( ~~$1,000 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~4 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
25.  
  
Open space remainder lots and surplus state property  
  
Land Use Hourly x 4  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~31. ~~  
  
~~Pre-application conference^9^~~  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~1 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
26.  
  
Pre-application conference^7^  
  
Land Use Hourly x 1  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~32. ~~  
  
~~Public benefit feature review ~~))  
  
(( ~~$500 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~2 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
27.  
  
Public benefit feature review  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~33. ~~  
  
~~Records research by the Public Resource Center ~~))  
  
(( ~~$110 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$110 ~~))  
  
(( ~~1 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~34. ~~  
  
~~Rebuild Letters ~~  
  
~~a. With Research ~~  
  
~~b. Without Research ~~))  
  
(( ~~$110 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$35 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~35. ~~  
  
~~Renewals including shoreline renewals ~~))  
  
(( ~~$500 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~2 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
28.  
  
Renewals including shoreline renewals  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~36. ~~  
  
~~Revisions other than shoreline revisions ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~1 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
29.  
  
Revisions other than shoreline revisions  
  
Land Use Hourly x 1  
  
..TX:  
  
  
  
(( ~~37. ~~  
  
~~School use and school development advisory committee reviews ~~))  
  
(( ~~$2,500 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~10 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
30.  
  
School use and school development advisory committee reviews  
  
Land Use Hourly x 10  
  
..TX:  
  
/ / / / /  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~38. ~~  
  
~~Shoreline exemptions ~~))  
  
(( ~~Base Fee x 1 ~~))  
  
(( ~~Base Fee x 1 ~~))  
  
(( ~~1 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
31.  
  
Shoreline exemptions  
  
Land Use Hourly x 1  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~39. ~~  
  
~~Shoreline permit revisions not due to required conditions ~~))  
  
(( ~~$500 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~2 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
32.  
  
Shoreline permit revisions not due to required conditions  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~40. ~~  
  
~~Special accommodation ~~))  
  
(( ~~$500 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~2 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
33.  
  
Special accommodation  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~41. ~~  
  
~~Structural building overhangs and areaways as a separate component ~~))  
  
(( ~~$500 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~2 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
34.  
  
Structural building overhangs and areaways as a separate  
  
component  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~42. ~~  
  
~~Tree and Vegetation Restoration Review in ECA above minimum threshold~~  
  
where SEPA is not required other than for the restoration ))  
  
(( ~~$500 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~2 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
35.  
  
Tree and Vegetation Restoration Review in ECA above minimum threshold  
  
where SEPA is not required other than for the restoration (25.09.320A3c2b )  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~43. ~~  
  
~~Recording Fees, for LBA, Short Subdivision ~~))  
  
(( ~~Rate charged by King County^10^~~  
  
))  
  
..TX:  
  
(( ~~44. ~~  
  
~~Street Improvement Exceptions on a Land Use permit ~~))  
  
(( ~~$500 ~~))  
  
(( ~~$250 ~~))  
  
(( ~~2 ~~))  
  
..TX:  
  
36.  
  
Street Improvement Exceptions on a Land Use permit  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
..TX:  
  
/ / / / /  
  
..TX:  
  
..TX:  
  
..TX:  
  
**  
**  
  
**C. NON-HOURLY LAND USE FEES**  
  
**Type of Land Use Review**  
  
###### Fee  
  
37.  
  
Curb cuts as a separate component  
  
\a. Single- family residential  
  
\b. Other than single-family residential  
  
$72 each  
  
$143 each  
  
38.  
  
Intake appointments for land use reviews; fee is charged for each occurrence  
  
###### DPD Base Fee x 1  
  
39.  
  
Notice. All notice is charged based upon type for each occurrence.^8^  
  
\a. Land use information bulletin (GMR notice)  
  
DPD Base Fee x 1  
  
\b. Posting large sign or placards  
  
$109  
  
\c. Mailed notice  
  
DPD Base Fee x 1  
  
\d. DJC decision publication  
  
$171  
  
\e. Neighborhood newspaper decision publication  
  
$171  
  
\f. Public meeting room rental  
  
$110  
  
40.  
  
Rebuild Letters  
  
\a. With Research  
  
\b. Without Research  
  
DPD Base Fee x 1  
  
$37  
  
41.  
  
Records research by the Public Resource Center  
  
DPD Base Fee x 1  
  
42.  
  
Recording Fees, for LBA, Short Subdivision  
  
Rate charged by King County^9^  
  
Notes to Table C-1:  
  
\1. For purposes of these land use fees, low-income housing is housing that both (1) satisfies the definition of "low-income housing" in SMC 23.84.024; and (2) where at least (( ~~~~ fifty ~~~~)) 50 percent of the total gross floor area of each structure on the site is committed to low-income housing use for at least 20 years.  
  
\2. The single variance fee shall be applicable whether the project requires one (( ~~~~ (1) ~~~~)) or multiple variances.  
  
\3. Includes short subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.  
  
\4. Includes unit-lot subdivisions and full subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.  
  
\5. This fee applies when design review is initiated only for tree protection and the application has no other review under Items 1 - 14.  
  
(( ~~~~ 6. The minimum fee is applied to the cost to fabricate, install and remove the environmental review sign. If the sign is removed or defaced before the final City decision the applicant will be responsible for paying the vendor contracted with the City to repair or replace the sign. ~~~~))  
  
(( ~~~~ 7. ~~~~)) 6. The fees for interpretations of SMC Chapters 25.12, 25.20, 25.22, and 25.24 shall be collected by the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods.  
  
(( ~~~~ 8. ~~~~)) 7. Additional notice may be given in circumstances including but not limited to the following: reinstallation of environmental review signs, reposting of the land use review or environmental signs, new component reviews added subsequent to the original notice, revised decisions, and changes to the scope of the project.  
  
(( ~~~~ 9. ~~~~)) 8. The pre- application conference fee covers a one hour conference. Additional pre-application review time will be charged at the Land Use hourly rate. See also Section 22.900C.010.E .  
  
(( ~~~~ 10. ~~~~)) 9. Recording fees will be charged the current rate as established and charged by King County at the time of document recording.  
  
(( ~~~~ 1. Nonrefundable Fees. Fees for preapplication conferences and environmental signs are not refundable. ~~~~  
  
~~~~ 2. Calculating Refunds for Land Use Fees. The amount of land use review fee that may be refunded is calculated as follows. ~~~~  
  
~~~~ a. For refunds requested before a required notice is complete, the amount eligible for refund is 75 percent of the minimum land use review fee plus 100 percent of the hourly deposit, if any, paid by the applicant. ~~~~  
  
~~~~ b. For refunds requested after notice is complete and for applications for which notice is not required, the amount eligible for refund is the number of hours of review time multiplied by $250.00, subtracted from the amount paid by the applicant. The amount refunded shall not exceed 75 percent of the minimum land use review fee. ~~~~))  
  
Section 4. Section 22.900D.145 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 123106, is hereby amended as follows:  
  
22.900D.145 Site and Geotechnical review fee(( ~~~~ . ~~~~))  
  
A. The fees for plan review and inspection of the following are as provided in this section and Table D-SR:  
  
\1. Land-disturbing activity as defined in the (( ~~~~ Grading Code SMC 22.170.050 ~~~~)) Stormwater Code, SMC 22.810.130 ; and  
  
\2. Drainage, including temporary drainage and erosion and sedimentation control.  
  
B. The minimum fees for site and geotechnical review are specified in Table D-SR, and shall be paid at the time specified in the Table. Hourly fees due in addition to the minimum fee will be calculated during review and prior to of final inspection, issuance of Certificate of Occupancy or permit expiration . Payment of hourly fees is due at the times specified in Table D-SR or may be charged in accordance with Section 22.900B.010.  
  
C. The charge for review time, including site and geotechnical inspections in excess of the time included in the minimum fee, is the DPD hourly rate. Accrued hours shall be billed and payable upon receipt of invoice.  
  
D. The fee for third party review as specified in the environmentally critical areas regulations, Seattle Municipal Code Section 25.09.080C, and for shoring review is the contract cost to the Department for the review plus an amount equal to (( ~~~~ fifteen ( ~~~~))15(( ~~~~ ) ~~~~)) percent of the contract amount for administration and review of the third party geotechnical report and professional opinion. Seventy-five (( ~~~~ (75) ~~~~)) percent of the estimated contract amount shall be paid prior to the contract award.  
  
E. Site review fees are nonrefundable.  
  
Table D-SR - SITE AND GEOTECHNICAL REVIEW FEE  
  
**Type of Site Review**  
  
**Minimum Fee**  
  
**Time at Which Minimum Fee is Due**  
  
**Review Time Included in Minimum Fee**  
  
**Time at Which Hourly Fees are Due**  
  
\1. Pre-application site inspection  
  
3/4 hour at the DPD hourly rate  
  
At the time of application intake  
  
3/4 hour  
  
At the time of application intake  
  
\2. Drainage and grading separate from a development permit  
  
(( ~~One ( ~~))1(( ~~) ~~)) hour at the DPD hourly rate  
  
At the time of application intake  
  
1 hour  
  
At the time of permit issuance  
  
\3. Review to determine Environmentally Critical Area exemption1  
  
1/2 hour at the DPD hourly rate  
  
At the time of application intake  
  
1/2 hour  
  
At the time of decision  
  
\4. Site located in Environmentally Critical Area unless fully exempt from ECA standards  
  
2- 1/2 hours at the DPD hourly rate  
  
At the time of application intake  
  
2-1/2 hours  
  
At the time of permit issuance  
  
\5. Sites requiring either Geotechnical or Drainage review or both  
  
DPD hourly 1/4 hour minimum  
  
At the time of Permit issuance  
  
Not Applicable  
  
At the time of permit issuance  
  
\6. Post-Issuance Geotechnical Review for all permits with geotechnical special inspections  
  
1 hour at the DPD hourly rate  
  
At the time of permit issuance  
  
1 hour  
  
At the time of final inspection, issuance of Certificate of Occupancy or permit expiration.  
  
/ / / / /  
  
**POST-ISSUANCE SITE INSPECTIONS AND OTHER REVIEWS**  
  
**Type / DEPTCM / Action Class**  
  
**Worktype**  
  
**ECA Filter/Action Type**  
  
**Rate**  
  
3001 (building) / Single Family New  
  
Full + Full C  
  
ECA types (1, 2, 8)  
  
2.5 x base rate  
  
3001 (building) / Single Family New  
  
Full + Full C  
  
ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)  
  
1.5 x base rate  
  
3001 (building) / Single Family New  
  
Full + Full C  
  
Non ECA  
  
1.5 x base rate  
  
3001 / Single Family New  
  
Field Full  
  
ECA types (1, 2, 8)  
  
2 x base rate  
  
3001 / Single Family New  
  
Field Full  
  
ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)  
  
1 x base rate  
  
3001 / Single Family New  
  
Field Full  
  
Non ECA  
  
1 x base rate  
  
3001 / Single Family Add Alt  
  
Full + Full C  
  
ECA types (1, 2, 8)  
  
1.5 x base rate  
  
3001 / Single Family Add Alt  
  
Full + Full C  
  
ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)  
  
1.25 x base rate  
  
3001 / Single Family Add Alt  
  
Full + Full C  
  
Non ECA  
  
1.25 x base rate  
  
3001 / Single Family Add Alt  
  
Field Full  
  
ECA types (1, 2, 8)  
  
1.25 x base rate  
  
3001 / Single Family Add Alt  
  
Field Full  
  
ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)  
  
1 x base rate  
  
3001 / Single Family Add Alt  
  
Field Full  
  
Non ECA  
  
1 x base rate  
  
3001 / Commercial New  
  
Full + Full C  
  
ECA types (1, 2, 8)  
  
4.5 x base rate  
  
3001 / Commercial New  
  
Full + Full C  
  
ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)  
  
3 x base rate  
  
3001 / Commercial New  
  
Full + Full C  
  
Non ECA  
  
3 x base rate  
  
3001 / Commercial New  
  
Field Full  
  
ECA types (1, 2, 8)  
  
3 x base rate  
  
3001 / Commercial New  
  
Field Full  
  
ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)  
  
1.5 x base rate  
  
3001 / Commercial New  
  
Field Full  
  
Non ECA  
  
1.5 x base rate  
  
3001 / Commercial Add Alt  
  
Full + Full C  
  
ECA types (1, 2, 8)  
  
2.5 x base rate  
  
3001 / Commercial Add Alt  
  
Full + Full C  
  
ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)  
  
2 x base rate  
  
3001 / Commercial Add Alt  
  
Full + Full C  
  
Non ECA  
  
2 x base rate  
  
3001 / Commercial Add Alt  
  
Field Full  
  
ECA types (1, 2, 8)  
  
2 x base rate  
  
3001 / Commercial Add Alt  
  
Field Full  
  
ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)  
  
2 x base rate  
  
3001 / Commercial Add Alt  
  
Field Full  
  
Non ECA  
  
2 x base rate  
  
3002 / Demo  
  
All Worktypes  
  
Demo Only  
  
1/2 x base rate  
  
3001 / Other  
  
All Worktypes  
  
Temp and None  
  
1/2 x base rate  
  
3005 / Grading Only  
  
Full + Full C  
  
Grading Only  
  
2.5 x base rate  
  
3005 / Grading Only  
  
Field Full  
  
Grading Only  
  
1 x base rate  
  
Note to Table D-SR  
\1. The fee for review of possible exemptions applies regardless of the review's outcome.  
  
Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.  
  
Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
  
\_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council  
  
Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
Michael McGinn, Mayor  
  
Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
City Clerk  
  
(Seal)  
  
  
