* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)117122**   
**Ordinance Number: 123560**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Opportunity Fund category of the 2008 Parks and Green Spaces Levy; accepting the recommendations of the 2008 Parks and Green Spaces Levy Oversight Committee; authorizing the acquisition of real property commonly known as 18th Ave. SW & SW Brandon St. (Puget Ridge Edible Park) and 19th and Madison Neighborhood Park; authorizing acceptance of the deeds for open space, park, and recreation purposes; amending the 2011 Adopted Budget and 2011-2016 Capital Improvement Program; and increasing appropriations in connection thereto; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 14, 2011   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Bagshaw, Conlin)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 18, 2011   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 18, 2011   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 7, 2011   
**Committee:** Parks and Seattle Center   
**Sponsor:** BAGSHAW   
  
**Index Terms:** PARKS, OPEN-SPACE-LAND, LAND-ACQUISITION, BUDGET, RIVERVIEW, DELRIDGE, MINOR, STEVENS, CAPITOL-HILL, CENTRAL-AREA  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Ordinance 122749](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=122749&s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=/~public/cbory.htm&r=1&f=G)  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/117122.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)117122  
  
**Electronic Copy: ** [PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123560](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123560.pdf)  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Opportunity Fund category of the  
    2008 Parks and Green Spaces Levy; accepting the  
    recommendations of the 2008 Parks and Green Spaces Levy  
    Oversight Committee; authorizing the acquisition of real  
    property commonly known as 18th Ave. SW & SW Brandon St.  
    (Puget Ridge Edible Park) and 19th and Madison Neighborhood  
    Park; authorizing acceptance of the deeds for open space,  
    park, and recreation purposes; amending the 2011 Adopted  
    Budget and 2011-2016 Capital Improvement Program; and  
    increasing appropriations in connection thereto; and ratifying  
    and confirming certain prior acts, all by a three-fourths vote  
    of the City Council.  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 122749 authorized a proposition to be  
    submitted to Seattle's voters that would levy for up to six  
    years regular property taxes in excess of the limitation on  
    levies in Chapter 84.55 RCW for the purposes of acquiring,  
    developing, or restoring parks, recreation facilities,  
    cultural facilities, green spaces, playfields, trails,  
    community gardens, and shoreline areas; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the proposed 2008 Parks and Green Spaces Levy (2008  
    Parks Levy) was approved by Seattle voters on November 4,  
    2008; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the 2008 Parks Levy program includes an Opportunity  
    Fund, making available up to $15,000,000 to fund acquisition  
    and development projects not identified for funding in the  
    remainder of the 2008 Parks Levy program; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 122749 established a Parks and Green Spaces  
    Levy Oversight Committee (Oversight Committee), with  
    responsibilities to include adopting evaluation criteria and  
    recommending Opportunity Fund awards to the Superintendent,  
    Mayor, and City Council; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Oversight Committee recommended two funding  
    cycles for the Opportunity Fund and has conducted an extensive  
    public process regarding acquisition and development projects  
    to be funded in the first funding cycle; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Oversight Committee recommended the allocation of  
    $6,966,000 for the Opportunity Fund's first funding cycle,  
    which includes $993,000 for acquisition projects, and  
    $5,973,000 for development projects; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Mayor and City Council express their gratitude to  
    the members of the Oversight Committee for their generous  
    donation of time and expertise in adopting evaluation  
    criteria, soliciting candidate projects, evaluating projects,  
    and making recommendations for funding awards; and  
  
    WHEREAS, certain new projects are not presently included in  
    the 2011-2016 Capital Improvement Program; NOW THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1. The development project awards recommended by the  
    Parks and Green Spaces Levy Oversight Committee, as listed in  
    Attachment 1, are adopted.  
  
    Section 2. The acquisitions recommended by the Parks and Green  
    Spaces Levy Oversight Committee are adopted. The  
    Superintendent of Parks and Recreation or the Superintendent's  
    designee is authorized to acquire, for fair market value as  
    determined by appraisal, real property commonly known as: (a)  
    18th Ave. SW & SW Brandon St. (Puget Ridge Edible Park), and  
    (b) 19th and Madison Neighborhood Park.  
  
    The legal descriptions are as follows:  
  
     18th Ave. SW & SW Brandon St. (   Puget Ridge  
    Edible Park)   
  
    Lot 4, Block 7, Homecroft Addition to the City of Seattle,  
    according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 24 of Plats,  
    page 42, records of King County, Washington; EXCEPT the north  
    50 feet thereof  
  
     19th and Madison Neighborhood Park   
  
    Parcels A, B, C, and D, City of Seattle Short Subdivision No.  
    3009318, recorded under Recording No. 2009021800006.  
  
    Tract 2:  
  
    An easement for ingress and egress over the east 5 feet of Lot  
    8, Block 26, Renton's Addition to the City of Seattle,  
    according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 3 of Plats,  
    page 118, in King County, Washington.  
  
    Section 3. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation or the  
    Superintendent's designee is authorized to undertake such  
    investigations and to execute such documents as deemed  
    necessary or desirable to accomplish the acquisition of the  
    properties described in Section 2 above and to accept the  
    deeds for the Properties by attaching to the deeds the  
    Superintendent's written acceptance and recording them. The  
    Properties shall be accepted for open space, park, and  
    recreation purposes, and placed under the jurisdiction of the  
    Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation.  
  
    Section 4. In order to pay for necessary capital costs and  
    expenses incurred, or to be incurred, but for which  
    insufficient appropriations were made, the appropriations for  
    the following in the 2011 Adopted Budget are increased from  
    the fund shown, as follows:  
  
**Fund**  
  
**Department**  
  
**Budget Control Level**  
  
**Amount**  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund (33860)  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
2008 Parks Levy - Opportunity Fund Acquisition (K720040)  
  
$993,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund (33860)  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
2008 Parks Levy - Opportunity Fund Development (K720041)  
  
$5,973,000  
  
Section 5. The 2011-2016 Adopted Capital Improvement Program is hereby amended to include the following new projects as described in Attachment 1 of this ordinance:  
  
**Department**  
  
**Project Name**  
  
**Project ID**  
  
**Amount**  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
Bitter Lake Reservoir Park Renovation  
  
K730144  
  
$287,000  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
East James Court Development  
  
K730145  
  
$500,000  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
East John Street Open Space Development  
  
K730148  
  
$260,000  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
El Centro de la Raza Play Area Improvements  
  
K730154  
  
$350,000  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
Jimi Hendrix Park Improvements  
  
K730146  
  
$500,000  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
John Muir Elementary Playground Improvements  
  
K730147  
  
$270,000  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
Lewis Park Reforestation  
  
K730149  
  
$260,000  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
Lower Kinnear Park Renovation  
  
K730150  
  
$750,000  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
McGilvra Place Renovation  
  
K730151  
  
$364,000  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
Rainier Beach Urban Farm and Wetlands Improvements  
  
K730153  
  
$500,000  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
Thornton Creek Park \#6 Restoration  
  
K730152  
  
$500,000  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
Troll's Knoll (Aurora Avenue N. and N 36th St.) Park Development  
  
K730155  
  
$685,000  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
University Heights - South Lot Development  
  
K730156  
  
$747,000  
  
Section 6. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after its passage and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
Section 7. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.  
  
Passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of all the members of the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council  
  
Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
Michael McGinn, Mayor  
  
Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
City Clerk  
  
(Seal)  
  
Attachment 1: 2008 Parks Levy Project Descriptions-Department of Parks and Recreation Capital Improvement Program  
  
  
