* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)117327**   
**Ordinance Number: 123758**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE adopting a budget, including a capital improvement program and position modifications, for The City of Seattle for 2012; creating positions exempt from civil service; all by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 21, 2011   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Licata)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 30, 2011   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 30, 2011   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 31, 2011   
**Committee:** Special Budget   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN   
**Committee Recommendation:** Pass as amended   
**Date of Committee Recommendation:** November 21, 2011   
**Committee Vote:** 9-0   
  
*(No indexing available for this document)*  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/117327.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)117327  
  
**Electronic Copy: ** [PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123758](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123758.pdf)  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE adopting a budget, including a capital improvement  
    program and position modifications, for The City of Seattle for  
    2012; creating positions exempt from civil service; all by a  
    two-thirds vote of the City Council.  
  
    WHEREAS, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.030, the Mayor submitted the  
    proposed budget for 2012 to the City Council; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Mayor submitted a list of proposed position  
    modifications as part of the 2012 Proposed Budget; and  
  
    WHEREAS, by Resolution 24964, the City Council adopted the concept of  
    implementing the City's Capital Improvement Program through  
    appropriations in budgets adopted annually to the greatest  
    extent feasible; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the proposed budget for 2012 includes certain appropriations  
    for capital programs that are described in the 2012-2017  
    Proposed Capital Improvement Program; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City's 2012-2017 Capital Improvement Program, in  
    conjunction with the Capital Facilities, Utility and  
    Transportation Elements of the Comprehensive Plan, is in  
    accordance with the State Growth Management Act; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
          Section 1. (a) In accordance with RCW 35.32A.050, the City  
    Council has modified the proposed budget submitted by the Mayor.  
  
          (b) The expenditure allowances for the budget control levels in  
    Attachment A to this ordinance, as restricted by the budget provisos  
    included in Clerk File (C.F.) 311810, are adopted and constitute the  
    appropriations for the City's annual budget for 2012.  
  
          (c) The expenditure allowance for each budget control level in  
    Attachment A may be used only for the purpose listed in Attachment A  
    for that budget control level, unless transferred pursuant to Seattle  
    Municipal Code Chapter 5.08.  Each budget control level listed in  
    Attachment A is a "budget item" as that term is used in Section  
    5.08.020. Use of any amount of any appropriation restricted by one or  
    more of the provisos in C.F. 311810 for any other purpose than that  
    stated, or for any purpose expressly excluded, or in violation of any  
    condition specified by proviso, whether by transfer pursuant to  
    Section 5.08.020 or by any other means, is prohibited.  
  
          (d) In addition to each budget control level in Attachment A,  
    any budget control level created by a previous budget for which  
    appropriations remain that have not lapsed are part of the 2012  
    budget and are subject to the restrictions in Subsection 1(c) above.  
  
           (e) Unspent funds for the Executive Department Office of  
    Housing's Low-Income Housing Fund 16400 Budget Control Level  
    appropriated by Subsection 1(b) shall carry forward to subsequent  
    fiscal years until they are exhausted or abandoned by ordinance.  
  
          (f) Unspent funds for the Pike Place Market Renovation Budget  
    Control Level appropriated by Subsection 1(b) shall carry forward to  
    subsequent fiscal years until they are exhausted or abandoned by  
    ordinance.  
  
          (g) Unspent funds from the $8.1 million in the "Transportation  
    Reserve" program for the Finance General Reserves Budget Control  
    Level shall carry forward to subsequent fiscal years until they are  
    exhausted or abandoned by ordinance.  
  
          (h) The revenue estimates for 2012 contained in the Mayor's 2012  
    Proposed Budget, filed in C.F. 311808, as modified by the changes of  
    the City Council in C.F. 311810, are adopted.  
  
          Section 2.  The 2012-2017 Proposed Capital Improvement Program  
    submitted by the Mayor, filed in C.F. 311809, as modified by the  
    changes of the City Council in C.F. 311810, is  
  
    adopted as the City's six-year Capital Improvement Program ("CIP").  
  
         Section 3.  (a)  The officer and employee position modifications  
    in Attachment B, including the creation of some positions exempt from  
    civil service, are adopted effective January 3, 2012.  
  
          (b)  The City by enacting Ordinance 123626 established a  
    position list that became effective as of January 4, 2011. Subsection  
    3(a) of this ordinance modifies that list.  It is anticipated that  
    the Personnel Department will submit a proposed list of the City's  
    regular positions for each department or office as of January 3,  
    2012, to the City Council for possible action in early 2012.  The  
    proposed list should reflect (i) the modifications made in Subsection  
    3(a) of this ordinance that take effect on January 3, 2012; (ii) the  
    reclassifications of regular positions made by the Personnel Director  
    from January 4, 2011, through January 2, 2012; and (iii) the  
    creation, modification, or abrogation of regular positions by  
    ordinances effective from January 4, 2011, through January 2, 2012.  
  
          Section 4.  (a)  Subject to the conditions in  Section 1 above,  
    the appropriation of money in the budget adopted by this ordinance,  
    for a budget control level that includes a program or project  
    assigned a project identification number in the 2012-2017 Adopted  
    CIP, constitutes authority for the designated City department,  
    commission, or office (after compliance with the State Environmental  
    Policy Act) to acquire personal property; obtain options to acquire  
    real property; negotiate to acquire right-of-way and other real  
    property interests; prepare plans and designs; demolish, construct,  
    make improvements; and obtain any ancillary services, including,  
    without limitation, planning, engineering, design, appraisal, escrow,  
    title insurance, construction, inspection, environmental audits, and  
    remediation appraisals or other reviews; all in order to carry out  
    the project or program substantially as described in the 2012-2017  
    Adopted CIP.  Each department may obtain the authorized services or  
    property using City staff or by contract as authorized in Section 6.  
    Where projects or programs are identified in the 2012-2017 Adopted  
    CIP to be carried out by other entities wholly or in part with City  
    funds, the appropriation constitutes authority to provide such funds  
    to such other entities for such purposes, subject to applicable laws  
    and ordinances.  
  
          (b) None of the appropriations in the 2012 Adopted Budget may be  
    spent on capital projects or programs unless the projects or programs  
    are specifically identified and assigned a project identification  
    number in the 2012-2017 Adopted CIP or are added to the 2012-2017  
    Adopted CIP by a future amending ordinance.  This prohibition  
    includes, but is not limited to, spending on the planning,  
    acquisition, construction, reconstruction, repair, replacement,  
    rehabilitation, or improvement of streets, roads, highways,  
    sidewalks, street and road lighting systems, traffic signals,  
    bridges, domestic water systems, storm and sanitary sewer systems,  
    parks, recreational facilities, law enforcement facilities, fire  
    protection facilities, trails, libraries, administrative or judicial  
    facilities, river or waterway flood control projects, or power  
    transmission or generation facilities.  
  
          (c) Without future Council authorization by ordinance,  
    expenditures in 2012 on any project or program identified and  
    assigned a project identification number in the 2012-2017 Adopted CIP  
    for Seattle City Light, Seattle Public Utilities, or the Seattle  
    Department of Transportation, other than expenditures pursuant to  
    unspent capital appropriations carried forward from 2011 into 2012 in  
    accordance with RCW 35.32A.080 and allocated to the same project or  
    program, shall not exceed by more than $1,000,000 the amount shown as  
    the Appropriations Total in the 2012 column for that project or  
    program.  The City Budget Office shall certify to the Chair of the  
    City Council Finance and Budget Committee a list of those unspent  
    capital appropriations not subject to the expenditure restriction  
    imposed by this subsection by May 1, 2012. The list shall include the  
    project identification number and the dollar amount by project or  
    program not subject to the expenditure restriction, at minimum.  The  
    Chair of the City Council Finance and Budget Committee shall then  
    file this certification with the City Clerk.  
  
          (d) Moneys appropriated from funds, subfunds, accounts, and  
    subaccounts in which are deposited the proceeds derived from the  
    issuance of bonded obligations shall be expended only in accordance  
    with the terms, conditions, and restrictions of ordinances  
    authorizing such obligations and establishing the respective funds.  
  
          (e) The 2012-2017 Adopted CIP is part of the 2012 Adopted Budget  
    and identifies, among other projects, those capital projects funded  
    wholly or in part from the proceeds of the taxes authorized in RCW  
    82.46.010 and/or RCW 82.46.035, and/or from the proceeds of bonds,  
    for the repayment of which tax revenues under RCW 82.46.010 have been  
    pledged.  Such taxes are intended to be in addition to other funds  
    that may be reasonably available for such capital projects.  
  
          (f) The portions of the 2012-2017 Adopted CIP pertaining to  
    Seattle City Light and Seattle Public Utilities, as those portions of  
    the 2012-2017 Adopted CIP may be amended from time to time, are  
    adopted as systems or plans of additions to, and betterments and  
    extensions of, the facilities, physical plants, or systems of Seattle  
    City Light and Seattle Public Utilities, respectively.  
  
          (g) The Director of the Department of Finance and Administrative  
    Services and the City's Director of Finance are authorized to draw  
    and pay the necessary warrants or checks and to make any necessary  
    transfers among funds and accounts.  
  
          (h) Except as limited by this Section or by Section 1 above or  
    by any other ordinance, the funds appropriated in the 2012 Adopted  
    Budget shall be subject to transfer for use with other projects as  
    provided in Chapter 5.08.  
  
          Section 5.  The Mayor or, at the Mayor's request, the head of  
    the department that is designated to carry out a project for and on  
    behalf of The City of Seattle, is authorized to submit applications  
    as may be deemed appropriate to the United States of America, or any  
    of its departments, and the State of Washington, or any of its  
    departments, for financial assistance in carrying out the authorized  
    projects included in the 2012-2017 Adopted CIP; to make for and on  
    behalf of the City all assurances, promises, representations, and  
    consent to suit, and/or covenants to comply with any applicable  
    regulations of the United States relating to implementation of the  
    projects; to act in connection with the applications as the  
    authorized representative of the City; to provide additional  
    information as may be required; and to prepare plans for  
    implementation of terms and conditions as may accompany financial  
    assistance, provided that the submission of an application shall not  
    result in the making of a contract, in incurring of any indebtedness,  
    or in the acceptance of moneys imposing any duties or obligations  
    upon the City except as shall be authorized by this or other  
    ordinance.  
  
          Section 6.  The Director of Transportation, the Superintendent  
    of Parks and Recreation, the Director of the Office of Arts and  
    Cultural Affairs, the Superintendent of City Light, the Director of  
    Seattle Public Utilities, the Director of the Department of Finance  
    and Administrative Services, the City Librarian, the Chief Technology  
    Officer, and the Director of the Seattle Center Department are  
    authorized to negotiate for and enter into non-public works  
    contracts, within their appropriation authority, to obtain property  
    and services authorized in Section 4 to carry out those capital  
    projects and programs included in the 2012-2017 Adopted CIP and  
    assigned to their respective departments or offices.  
  
          Section 7.  The Mayor and the City Council find that the General  
    Fund's 2012 contribution to the Park and Recreation Fund exceeds the  
    requirements established in Article XI, Section 3 of the City Charter  
  
          Section 8.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be  
    separate and severable.  If one or more of the provisions of this  
    ordinance shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to  
    be contrary to law, the provision shall be severed from the rest of  
    the ordinance and all other provisions shall remain valid.  
  
          Section 9.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30  
    days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and  
    returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall  
    take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.  
  
         Passed by a two-thirds vote of all the members of the City  
    Council the _____ day of __________________, 2011, and signed by me  
    in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of  
    __________________, 2011.  
  
                                  _________________________________  
  
                                  President __________of the City  
    Council  
  
         Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2011.  
  
                                  _________________________________  
  
                                  Michael McGinn, Mayor  
  
         Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2011.  
  
                                  _________________________________  
  
                   Monica Martinez Simmons, City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Jennifer Price / Martha Lester  
    CBO 2012 Budget Adoption ORD  
    November 10, 2011  
    Version #8  
  
    Attachment A:     Expenditure Allowances by Budget Control Level  
  
    Attachment B:     Position Modifications for the 2012 Budget  
  
    Attachment A:     Expenditure Allowances by Budget Control Level  
  
**Fund**  
  
**Department**  
  
**Fund - Budget Control Level (BCRLS) Code**  
  
**Budget Control Level (BCL) Name**  
  
**BCL Purpose**  
  
**2012 Expenditure Allowance**  
  
General Subfund  
  
City Budget Office  
  
00100-CZ000  
  
City Budget Office  
  
The purpose of the City Budget Office Budget Control Level is to develop and monitor the budget, carry out budget-related functions, and oversee fiscal policy and financial planning activities.  
  
$ 4,030,780  
  
General Subfund  
  
Civil Service Commissions  
  
00100-V1CIV  
  
Civil Service Commissions  
  
The purpose of the Civil Service Commissions Budget Control Level is to provide administrative support to the Public Safety Civil Service Commission (PSCSC) and the Civil Service Commission (CSC). The PSCSC provides sworn police and uniformed fire employees with a quasi-judicial process for hearings on appeals concerning disciplinary actions, examination and testing, and other related issues. The CSC directs the civil service system for all other employees of the City. It investigates allegations of political patronage so the City's hiring process conforms to the merit system set forth in the City Charter. These commissions will at times improve the City personnel system by developing legislation for the Mayor and City Council.  
  
$ 344,266  
  
General Subfund  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00100-A1GM1  
  
General Government Facilities - General (00100-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the General Government Facilities - General Budget Control Level (BCL) is to execute capital projects in general government facilities. This BCL is funded by the General Fund dollars (Fund 00100).  
  
$ 419,000  
  
General Subfund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
00100-I3300  
  
Community Building  
  
The purpose of the Community Building Budget Control Level is to deliver technical assistance, support services, and programs in neighborhoods to strengthen local communities, engage residents in neighborhood improvement, leverage resources, and complete neighborhood-initiated projects.  
  
$ 2,392,178  
  
General Subfund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
00100-I3100  
  
Director's Office  
  
The purpose of the Director's Office Budget Control Level is to provide executive leadership, communications, and operational support for the entire department.  
  
$ 1,191,992  
  
General Subfund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
00100-I3200  
  
Internal Operations  
  
The purpose of the Internal Operations Budget Control Level is to provide financial, human resources, facilities, office management, and information technology services to the Department's employees to serve customers efficiently and effectively.  
  
$ 1,503,807  
  
General Subfund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
00100-I4100  
  
Youth Violence Prevention  
  
The purpose of the Youth Violence Prevention Budget Control Level is to reduce juvenile violent crimes.  
  
$ 3,376,079  
  
General Subfund  
  
Ethics and Elections Commission  
  
00100-V1T00  
  
Ethics and Elections  
  
The purpose of the Ethics and Elections Budget Control Level is threefold: 1) to audit, investigate, and conduct hearings regarding non-compliance with, or violations of, Commission-administered ordinances; 2) to advise all City officials and employees of their obligations under Commission-administered ordinances; and 3) to publish and broadly distribute information about the City's ethical standards, City election campaigns, campaign financial disclosure statements, and lobbyist disclosure statements.  
  
$ 759,952  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
00100-X1R00  
  
Civil Rights  
  
The purpose of the Civil Rights Budget Control Level is to work toward eliminating discrimination in employment, housing, public accommodations, contracting, and lending in Seattle through enforcement, and policy and outreach activities. The Office seeks to encourage and promote equal access and opportunity, diverse participation, and social and economic equity. In addition, the Office is responsible for directing the Race and Social Justice Initiative, leading other City departments to design and implement programs which eliminate institutionalized racism.  
  
$ 2,566,277  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
00100-VJ500  
  
Indigent Defense Services  
  
The purpose of the Indigent Defense Services Budget Control Level is to secure legal defense services, as required by state law, for indigent people facing criminal charges in Seattle Municipal Court.  
  
$ 6,169,790  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
00100-X1G00  
  
Intergovernmental Relations  
  
The purpose of the Intergovernmental Relations Budget Control Level is to promote and protect the City's federal, state, regional, and international interests by providing strategic advice, representation, and advocacy to, and on behalf of, City elected officials on a variety of issues. These include: federal and state executive and legislative actions; issues and events relating to the City's international and tribal relations; and jurisdictional issues involving King County, suburban cities, and regional governmental organizations.  
  
$ 2,091,092  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
00100-VJ100  
  
Jail Services  
  
The purpose of the Jail Services Budget Control Level is to provide for the booking, housing, transporting, and guarding of City inmates. The jail population, for which the City pays, are adults charged with or convicted of misdemeanor crimes alleged to have been committed within the Seattle city limits.  
  
$ 16,572,628  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
00100-X1N00  
  
Immigrant and Refugee Affairs Office  
  
The purpose of the Immigrant and Refugee Affairs Office BCL is to facilitate the successful integration of immigrants and refugees into Seattle's civic, economic, and cultural life, to celebrate their diverse cultures and contributions to Seattle, and to advocate on behalf of immigrants and refugees.  
  
$ 238,000  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
00100-X1D00  
  
Office of Economic Development  
  
The purpose of the Office of Economic Development Budget Control Level is to provide vital services to individual businesses and economic development leadership to support a strong local economy, thriving neighborhood business districts, and broadly-shared prosperity.  
  
$ 5,865,474  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
00100-X1000  
  
Office of Sustainability and Environment  
  
The purpose of the Office of Sustainability and Environment Budget Control Level is to develop, communicate, implement, and lead the City's Climate Protection and Green Seattle initiatives.  
  
$ 1,820,555  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
00100-X1A00  
  
Office of the Mayor  
  
The purpose of the Mayor's Office Budget Control Level is to provide honest, accessible leadership to residents, employees, and regional neighbors of the City of Seattle that is clear and responsible in an environment that encourages ideas, civic discourse, and inclusion for the entirety of the City's diverse population, creating an even better place to live, learn, work, and play.  
  
$ 3,498,045  
  
General Subfund  
  
Finance General  
  
00100-2QA00  
  
Appropriations to General Fund Subfunds and Special Funds  
  
The purpose of the Appropriation to General Fund Subfunds and Special Funds Budget Control Level is to appropriate General Subfund resources, several of which are based upon the performance of certain City revenues, to bond redemption or special purpose funds. These appropriations are implemented as operating transfers to the funds, subfunds, or accounts they support.  
  
$ 52,567,407  
  
General Subfund  
  
Finance General  
  
00100-2QD00  
  
Reserves  
  
The purpose of the Reserves Budget Control Level is to provide appropriation authority to those programs for which there is no single appropriate managing department, or for which there is Council and/or Mayor desire for additional budget oversight.  
  
$ 39,108,153  
  
General Subfund  
  
Finance General  
  
00100-2QE00  
  
Support to Operating Funds  
  
The purpose of the Support to Operating Funds Budget Control Level is to appropriate General Subfund resources to support the operating costs of line departments that have their own operating funds. These appropriations are implemented as operating transfers to the funds or subfunds they support.  
  
$ 289,065,563  
  
General Subfund  
  
Law Department  
  
00100-J1100  
  
Administration  
  
The purpose of the Administration Budget Control Level is to collectively recruit, train, evaluate, and retain qualified personnel who reflect the community and can effectively complete their assigned tasks, operate and maintain computer systems that enable department personnel to effectively use work-enhancing technology, and promote the financial integrity of the Department.  
  
$ 1,718,188  
  
General Subfund  
  
Law Department  
  
00100-J1300  
  
Civil  
  
The purpose of the Civil Budget Control Level is to provide legal advice to the City's policy-makers, and to defend and represent the City, its employees, and officials before a variety of county, state, and federal courts and administrative bodies.  
  
$ 10,677,827  
  
General Subfund  
  
Law Department  
  
00100-J1500  
  
Criminal  
  
The purpose of the Criminal Budget Control Level includes prosecuting ordinance violations and misdemeanor crimes, maintaining case information and preparing effective case files for the court appearances of prosecuting attorneys, and assisting and advocating for victims of domestic violence throughout the court process.  
  
$ 6,289,652  
  
General Subfund  
  
Law Department  
  
00100-J1700  
  
Precinct Liaison Attorneys  
  
The purpose of this BCL is to support a program where attorneys work in each of the City's five precincts, providing legal advice to police and other City departments. In helping to address a variety of neighborhood and community problems, the precinct liaison attorneys coordinate with the Civil and Criminal divisions to ensure a consistent, thorough and effective approach.  
  
$ 503,000  
  
General Subfund  
  
Legislative Department  
  
00100-G1100  
  
Legislative Department  
  
The purpose of the Legislative Department Budget Control Level is to set policy, enact City laws, approve the City's budget, provide oversight of City departments, and conduct operational and administrative activities in an efficient and effective manner to support the mission of the Department.  
  
$ 11,771,024  
  
General Subfund  
  
Office of City Auditor  
  
00100-VG000  
  
Office of City Auditor  
  
The purpose of the Office of City Auditor is to provide unbiased analyses, accurate information, and objective recommendations to assist the City in using public resources equitably, efficiently, and effectively in delivering services to Seattle residents.  
  
$ 1,250,544  
  
General Subfund  
  
Office of Hearing Examiner  
  
00100-V1X00  
  
Office of Hearing Examiner  
  
The purpose of the Office of Hearing Examiner Budget Control Level is to conduct fair and impartial hearings in all subject areas where the Seattle Municipal Code grants authority to do so (there are currently more than 50 subject areas) and to issue decisions and recommendations consistent with applicable ordinances.  
  
$ 607,710  
  
General Subfund  
  
Personnel Department  
  
00100-N4000  
  
City/Union Relations and Class/Comp Services  
  
The purpose of the City/Union Relations and Classification/Compensation Services Budget Control Level (BCL) is to support the City's efforts to fairly manage and compensate its diverse work force. City/Union Relations staff provide technical and professional labor-relations services to policymakers and management staff of all City departments. The Class/Comp staff develop personnel rules, pay programs, perform compensation analysis, and provide classification services and organizational consultation to all City departments.  
  
$ 3,210,651  
  
General Subfund  
  
Personnel Department  
  
00100-N3000  
  
Citywide Personnel Services  
  
The purpose of the Citywide Personnel Services Budget Control Level (BCL) is to establish citywide personnel rules and provide human resources systems, policy advice, information management, finance and accounting services, contingent work force oversight, and expert assistance to departments, policymakers, and employees so the City can accomplish its business goals in a cost-effective manner. This program includes Policy Development, Information Management, Finance and Accounting, Temporary Employment Services, and other internal support services.  
  
$ 2,681,948  
  
General Subfund  
  
Personnel Department  
  
00100-N2000  
  
Employee Health Services  
  
The purpose of the Employee Health Services Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide quality, cost-effective employee health care and other benefits, workers' compensation benefits, and safety services to maintain and promote employee health and productivity, and to provide a competitive non-cash compensation package. This program also includes administration of the Seattle Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust.  
  
$ 2,695,531  
  
General Subfund  
  
Personnel Department  
  
00100-N1000  
  
Employment and Training  
  
The purpose of the Employment and Training Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide staffing services, employee-development opportunities, mediation, and technical assistance to all City departments so the City can meet its hiring needs efficiently, maintain legal compliance, and help organizations and employees accomplish the City's work in a productive and cost-effective manner. This Budget Control Level includes the Police and Fire Exams, Employment, Supported Employment, Equal Employment Opportunity, Alternative Dispute Resolution, and Career Quest units.  
  
$ 2,942,663  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
00100-F1000  
  
Administration  
  
The purpose of the Administration Budget Control Level is to allocate and manage available resources, provide management information, and provide dispatch and communication services needed to achieve the Department's mission.  
  
$ 14,708,664  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
00100-F5000  
  
Fire Prevention  
  
The purpose of the Fire Prevention Budget Control Level is to provide Fire Code enforcement to help prevent injury and loss from fire and other hazards.  
  
$ 6,607,193  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
00100-F6000  
  
Grants & Reimbursables  
  
The purpose of the Grants & Reimbursables Budget Control Level (BCL) is to improve financial management of grant and reimbursable funds. In the annual budget process, costs for staff and equipment are fully reflected in the BCLs in which they reside; for example, in the Operations BCL. When reimbursable expenditures are made, the expenses are moved into this BCL to separate reimbursable and non-reimbursable costs, and to ensure the reimbursable costs are effectively managed and monitored.  
  
$ 832,286  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
00100-F3000  
  
Operations  
  
The purpose of the Operations Budget Control Level is to provide emergency and disaster response capabilities for fire suppression, emergency medical needs, hazardous materials, weapons of mass destruction, and search and rescue.  
  
$ 136,086,747  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
00100-F2000  
  
Risk Management  
  
The purpose of the Risk Management Budget Control Level is to recruit and train uniformed staff, reduce injuries by identifying and changing practices that place firefighters at greater risk, and providing services to enhance firefighter health and wellness.  
  
$ 2,722,547  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
00100-M3000  
  
Court Administration  
  
The purpose of the Court Administration Budget Control Level is to provide administrative controls, develop and provide strategic direction, and provide policy and program development.  
  
$ 5,913,131  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
00100-M4000  
  
Court Compliance  
  
The purpose of the Court Compliance Budget Control Level is to help defendants understand the Court's expectations and to assist them in successfully complying with court orders.  
  
$ 5,214,167  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
00100-M2000  
  
Court Operations  
  
The purpose of the Court Operations Budget Control Level is to hold hearings and address legal requirements for defendants and others who come before the Court. Some proceedings are held in formal courtrooms and others in magistrate offices, with the goal of providing timely resolution of alleged violations of City ordinances and misdemeanor crimes committed within the Seattle city limits.  
  
$ 15,510,391  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P1000  
  
Chief of Police  
  
The purpose of the Chief of Police Program is to lead and direct department employees and to provide policy guidance and oversee relationships with the community, so the department can provide the City with professional, dependable, and respectful public safety services.  
  
$ 2,630,088  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P7000  
  
Criminal Investigations Administration  
  
The purpose of the Criminal Investigations Administration Budget Control Level is to direct and support the work of employees in the Criminal Investigations Bureau by providing oversight and policy guidance, and technical support so these employees can execute their job duties effectively and efficiently. The program includes the Internet Crimes against Children and Human Trafficking section and the Crime Gun Initiative analyst.  
  
$ 7,654,533  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P1600  
  
Deputy Chief of Staff  
  
The purpose of the Deputy Chief of Staff Budget Control Level is to oversee the organizational support and legal functions of the Department to help achieve its mission. The Deputy Chief of Staff Budget Control Level includes the Chief of Administration who oversees the Records and Files, Data Center, and Public Request Programs, which had been their own Budget Control Levels in prior budgets. The Deputy Chief of Staff Budget Control Level was known as the Deputy Chief of Administration in previous budgets.  
  
$ 25,019,364  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P1800  
  
Deputy Chief Operations  
  
The purpose of the Deputy Chief Operations Budget Control Level is to oversee the operational functions of the Department so the public receives public safety services that are dependable, professional, and respectful. The Deputy Chief Operations Budget Control Level oversees the five Precincts and associated personnel.  
  
$ 2,394,578  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P6600  
  
East Precinct  
  
The purpose of the East Precinct Budget Control Level is to provide the full range of public safety and order maintenance services to residents of, and visitors to, the East Precinct, so they can be safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.  
  
$ 22,599,153  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P8000  
  
Field Support Administration  
  
The purpose of the Field Support Administration Budget Control Level is to provide policy direction and guidance to the employees and programs in the Department, so they can execute their responsibilities effectively and efficiently. The Field Support Administration Budget Control Level now includes the Communications, Information Technology, and Human Resources Programs; which were separate Budget Control Levels in prior budgets.  
  
$ 34,558,254  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P7700  
  
Narcotics Investigations  
  
The purpose of the Narcotics Investigations Budget Control Level is to apply a broad range of professional investigative skills to interdict narcotics activities affecting the community and region to hold offenders involved in these activities accountable and to promote public safety.  
  
$ 4,792,948  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P6200  
  
North Precinct Patrol  
  
The purpose of the North Precinct Patrol Budget Control Level is to provide the full range of public safety and order maintenance services to residents of, and visitors to, the North Precinct, so that they can be safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.  
  
$ 31,041,149  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P1300  
  
Office of Professional Accountability  
  
The purpose of the Office of Professional Accountability Budget Control Level is to help to provide oversight so that complaints involving department employees are handled in a thorough, professional, and expeditious manner, to retain the trust and confidence of employees and the public.  
  
$ 1,874,266  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P6000  
  
Patrol Operations Administration  
  
The purpose of the Patrol Operations Administration Budget Control Level is to provide oversight and direction to Patrol Operations, including the Department's five precincts, with the goal of ensuring that personnel are properly trained, supervised, and equipped to perform their jobs effectively.  
  
$ 1,294,543  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P6500  
  
South Precinct Patrol  
  
The purpose of the South Precinct Patrol Budget Control Level is to provide the full range of public safety and order maintenance services with the goal of keeping residents of, and visitors to, the South Precinct, safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.  
  
$ 16,516,477  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P6700  
  
Southwest Precinct Patrol  
  
The purpose of the Southwest Precinct Patrol Budget Control Level is to provide the full range of public safety and order maintenance services to residents of, and visitors to, the Southwest Precinct, so they can be safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.  
  
$ 14,979,145  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P7800  
  
Special Investigations  
  
The purpose of the Special Investigations Budget Control Level is to apply a broad range of professional investigative and analytical skills toward investigating and interdicting vehicle theft, fraud, forgery, and financial exploitation cases; vice crimes and organized crime activities in the community; and toward identifying and describing crime patterns and trends with the goals of holding offenders involved in these activities accountable and to provide public safety.  
  
$ 4,133,101  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P3400  
  
Special Operations  
  
The purpose of the Special Operations Budget Control Level is to deploy specialized response units in emergencies and disasters. The Bureau provides crowd control, special event, search, hostage, crisis, and water-related support to monitor and protect critical infrastructure to protect lives and property, aid the work of uniformed officers and detectives, and ensure the safety of the public.  
  
$ 40,733,160  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P7900  
  
Special Victims  
  
The purpose of the Special Victims Budget Control Level is to apply a broad range of professional investigative skills to cases involving family violence, sexual assault, child, and elder abuse, and custodial interference with the goals of holding offenders accountable, preventing additional harm to victims, and providing public safety.  
  
$ 6,176,786  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P7100  
  
Violent Crimes Investigations  
  
The purpose of the Violent Crimes Investigations Budget Control Level is to apply a broad range of professional investigative skills and crime scene investigation techniques to homicide, assault, robbery, bias crimes, missing persons, extortion, threat and harassment, and gang-related cases, in order to hold offenders accountable, prevent further harm to victims, and promote public safety.  
  
$ 6,799,355  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
00100-P6100  
  
West Precinct Patrol  
  
The purpose of the West Precinct Patrol Budget Control Level is to provide the full range of public safety and order maintenance services to residents of, and visitors to, the West Precinct, so that they can be safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.  
  
$ 29,020,348  
  
General Subfund  
  
The Seattle Public Library  
  
00100-B301111  
  
Library Major Maintenance (00100-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Library Major Maintenance Budget Control Level is to provide major maintenance to Library facilities, which include the Central Library and all branch libraries, to help ensure building integrity and improve functionality for patrons and staff.  
  
$ 220,000  
  
Judgment/Claims Subfund (00126) and (00127)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00126-CJ000  
  
Judgment Claims - General  
  
The purpose of the Judgment Claims - General Budget Control Level is to provide for the payment of legal claims and suits brought against the City government. The subfund receives appropriations from the General Subfund and the utilities to pay for the judgments, settlements, claims, and other eligible expenses expected in the following year. Unused balances, if any, may reduce the contributions required in succeeding years. General Fund-supported departments with 2% or more of historical Judgment/Claims costs make premium payments to the subfund directly from their budgets. Finance General covers premiums for departments with less than 2% of historical Judgment/Claims costs. Utilities pay their actual expenses as incurred through this budget control level.  
  
$ 17,829,739  
  
Municipal Jail Sub fund  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00139-MUNIJAIL-BCL  
  
Municipal Jail Bond Proceeds  
  
The purpose of the Municipal Jail Bond Proceeds Budget Control Level is to pay capital costs associated with the construction of a new jail.  
  
$ 1,000,000  
  
Arts Account (00140)  
  
Executive  
  
00140-VA140  
  
Arts Account  
  
The purpose of the Arts Account Budget Control Level (BCL) is to invest in Seattle's arts and cultural community to keep artists living and working in Seattle, to build community through arts and cultural events, and to increase arts opportunities for youth. The BCL appropriates the Office's admission tax set-aside, which is 75 percent of the City's total Admission Tax revenues.  
  
$ 5,049,535  
  
Cable Television Franchise Subfund (00160)  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
00160-D160B  
  
Cable Fee Support to Information Technology Fund  
  
The purpose of the Cable Fee Support to Information Technology Fund Budget Control Level is to authorize the transfer of resources from the Cable Television Franchise Subfund to the Department of Information Technology's Information Technology Fund. These resources are used by the Department for a variety of programs consistent with Resolution 30379.  
  
$ 7,990,663  
  
Cable Television Franchise Subfund (00160)  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
00160-D160C  
  
Cable Fee Support to Library Fund  
  
The purpose of the Cable Fee Support to Library Fund Budget Control Level is to authorize the transfer of resources from the Cable Television Franchise Subfund to the Seattle Public Library's Operating Fund. The Library uses these resources to pay for and maintain computers available to the public.  
  
$ 190,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72445  
  
Ballfields/Athletic Courts/Play Areas (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Ballfields/Athletic Courts/Play Areas Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and Recreation's ballfields, athletic courts, and play areas. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$ 200,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72444  
  
Building Component Renovations (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Building Component Renovations Budget Control Level (BCL) is to rehabilitate and replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and their components. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$ 3,651,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72449  
  
Citywide and Neighborhood Projects (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Citywide and Neighborhood Projects Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide funds for the acquisition, development, and rehabilitation of neighborhood parks and green spaces. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$ 1,034,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72440  
  
Debt Service and Contract Obligation (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet principal repayment and interest obligations on funds borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital expenditure requirements and to provide funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is supported by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$ 1,644,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72447  
  
Docks/Piers/Floats/Seawalls/Shorelines (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Docks/Piers/Floats/Seawalls/Shorelines Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and Recreation's docks, piers, floats, seawalls and shorelines. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$ 2,596,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72442  
  
Forest Restoration (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Forest Restoration Budget Control Level (BCL) is to protect and restore Parks and Recreation's forest habitat and to mitigate future environmental impacts. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$ 864,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72582  
  
Gas Works Park Remediation (CIP-00161)  
  
The purpose of the Gas Works Park Remediation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide ongoing monitoring efforts to ensure the measures constructed for remediation of soils at Gas Works Park were effective.  
  
$ 70,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72441  
  
Parks Infrastructure (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Parks Infrastructure Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the rehabilitation, replacement and addition of Parks infrastructure. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$ 687,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72861  
  
Parks Upgrade Program (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Parks Upgrade Program Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide minor capital improvements to low income area parks throughout the City. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$ 508,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72446  
  
Pools/Natatorium Renovations (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Pools/Natatorium Renovations Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and Recreation's pools. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$ 140,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
00161-2ECM0  
  
CRS REET II Support to Transportation  
  
The purpose of the CRS REET II Support to Transportation Budget Control Level is to appropriate funds from REET II to the Transportation Operating Fund to support specific capital programs, or in the case of the Debt Service Program, appropriate funds to pay debt service costs directly from the REET II Subaccount.  
  
$ 5,600,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00163-2CCE0-1  
  
1998B Capital Facilities Refunding REET I  
  
The purpose of the 1998B Capital Facilities Refunding REET I Budget Control Level is to pay debt service on 1998 Series B Limited Tax General Obligation bonds, which were issued to refund bonds issued in 1992 at lower interest rates.  
  
$ 1,186,763  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00163-A1GM19  
  
ADA Improvements - FAS (00163 CIP)  
  
The purpose of the ADA Improvements - FAS Budget Control Level is to update or modify facilities for compliance with the standards contained in the American with Disabilities Act.  
  
$ 491,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00163-A1GM3  
  
Environmental Stewardship (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Environmental Stewardship Budget Control Level is to provide resources to projects that mitigate existing environmental damage or increase the energy efficiency of City facilities. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$ 100,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00163-A1GM1  
  
General Government Facilities - General (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the General Government Facilities - General Budget Control Level (BCL) is to execute capital projects in general government facilities. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$ 200,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00163-A1FL1  
  
Neighborhood Fire Stations (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Neighborhood Fire Stations Budget Control Level (BCL) is to replace and renovate fire stations and other emergency response facilities as part of the Fire Facilities and Emergency Response Levy program. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$ 8,302,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00163-A1PS2  
  
Public Safety Facilities - Fire (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Public Safety Facilities - Fire Budget Control Level (BCL) is to renovate, expand, replace, or build fire facilities. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$ 1,022,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00163-A1PS1  
  
Public Safety Facilities - Police (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Public Safety Facilities - Police Budget Control Level (BCL) is to renovate, expand, replace, or build police facilities. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$ 100,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00163-K72444  
  
Building Component Renovations (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Building Component Renovations Budget Control Level (BCL) is to rehabilitate and replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and their components. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$ 256,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00163-K72440  
  
Debt Service and Contract Obligation (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet principal repayment and interest obligations on funds borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital expenditure requirements and to provide funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$ 814,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
00163-2UU50-DC-163  
  
Design Commission - CRS REET I  
  
The purpose of the Design Commission - CRS REET I Budget Control Level is to support the Design Commission, which advises the Mayor, City Council, and City departments on the design of capital improvements and other projects that shape Seattle's public realm. The goals of the Commission are to see that public facilities and projects within the City's right-of-way incorporate design excellence, that City projects achieve their goals in an economical manner, and that they fit the City's design goals.  
  
$ 302,640  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
00163-2UU51  
  
Tenant Relocation Assistance Program REET I  
  
The purpose of the Tenant Relocation Assistance Program REET I Budget Control Level is to allow the City to pay for relocation assistance to low income tenants displaced by development activity, as authorized by SMC 22.210 and RCW 59.18.440.  
  
$ 154,500  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Executive  
  
00163-V2ACGM-163  
  
Artwork Conservation - OACA - CRS REET I  
  
The purpose of the Artwork Conservation - OACA - CRS REET I Budget Control Level is to support the Arts Conservation Program, which is administered by the Office of Arts & Cultural Affairs. This program provides professional assessment, conservation, repair, routine and major maintenance, and relocation of artwork for both the City's approximately 400-piece, permanently sited art collection and the approximately 2,700-piece portable artwork collection. The entire collection is an asset to the City, and while major maintenance is generally not required for the new artwork entering the collection, professional routine care and responses to vandalism are necessary to protect this investment.  
  
$ 187,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00163-S03P01  
  
Campuswide Improvements and Repairs (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Campuswide Improvements and Repairs Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for improvements throughout the Seattle Center campus, including lighting, signage, artwork maintenance, open space and hard surface repairs, accessibility improvements, and planning. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$ 914,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00163-S9113  
  
Center House Rehabilitation (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Center House Rehabilitation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for major maintenance and improvements to the Center House at Seattle Center. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$ 381,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00163-2SC10  
  
CRS REET I Support to McCaw Hall Fund  
  
The purpose of the CRS REET I Support to McCaw Hall Fund Budget Control Level is to appropriate resources from REET I to the McCaw Hall Fund to support major maintenance work on McCall Hall. Any capital projects related to the expenditure of this reserve are listed in Seattle Center's Capital Improvement Program.  
  
$ 200,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00163-S03P02  
  
Facility Infrastructure Renovation and Repair (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Facility Infrastructure Renovation and Repair Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for seismic improvements, roof repair and replacement, and other infrastructure improvements to facilities on the Seattle Center campus. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$ 784,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
The Seattle Public Library  
  
00163-B301112  
  
ADA Improvements - Library (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the ADA Improvements - Library Budget Control Level is to update or modify facilities for compliance with the standards contained in the American with Disabilities Act.  
  
$ 207,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
The Seattle Public Library  
  
00163-B301111  
  
Library Major Maintenance (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Library Major Maintenance Budget Control Level is to provide major maintenance to Library facilities, which include the Central Library and all branch libraries, to help ensure building integrity and improve functionality for patrons and staff. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$ 600,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00164-A51647  
  
Garden of Remembrance (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Garden of Remembrance Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide City support for replacing components of the memorial located at the Benaroya Concert Hall. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$ 23,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00164-K72444  
  
Building Component Renovations (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Building Component Renovations Budget Control Level (BCL) is to rehabilitate and replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and their components. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$ 500,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00164-K72440  
  
Debt Service and Contract Obligation (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet principal repayment and interest obligations on funds borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital expenditure requirements and to provide funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$ 1,095,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00164-K72447  
  
Docks/Piers/Floats/Seawalls/Shorelines (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Docks/Piers/Floats/Seawalls/Shorelines Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and Recreation's docks, piers, floats, seawalls and shorelines. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$ 45,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00164-K72442  
  
Forest Restoration (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Forest Restoration Budget Control Level (BCL) is to protect and restore Parks and Recreation's forest habitat and to mitigate future environmental impacts. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$ 95,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00164-K72253  
  
Golf Projects (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Golf Projects Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for Golf related capital Projects. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$ 435,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00164-K72127  
  
Puget Park (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Puget Park Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the cleanup of a portion of Puget Park previously contaminated by the City of Seattle and three contributing parties.  
  
$ 230,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
00164-2UU50-TA  
  
Tenant Relocation Assistance Program - CRS-UR  
  
The purpose of the Tenant Relocation Assistance Program - CRS-UR Budget Control Level is to allow the City to pay for relocation assistance to low-income tenants displaced by development activity, as authorized by SMC 22.210 and RCW 59.18.440.  
  
$ 74,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00164-S03P01  
  
Campuswide Improvements and Repairs (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Campuswide Improvements and Repairs Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for improvements throughout the Seattle Center campus, including lighting, signage, artwork maintenance, open space and hard surface repairs, accessibility improvements, and planning. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$ 30,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00164-S9403  
  
Monorail Improvements (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Monorail Improvements Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the renovation of the Seattle Center Monorail, including the two trains, the two stations and the guideways that run in between. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$ 1,319,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00164-S9902  
  
Public Gathering Space Improvements (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Public Gathering Space Improvements Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for major maintenance and improvements to meeting rooms, exhibition spaces, and public gathering spaces at Seattle Center. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$ 50,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
00164-CRS-U-SDOT  
  
CRS-U Support to Transportation  
  
The purpose of the CRS-U Support to Transportation Budget Control Level is to appropriate funds from CRS Unrestricted Sub-account to the Transportation Operating Fund to support specific capital programs and pay debt service on specified transportation projects.  
  
$ 1,074,150  
  
Neighborhood Matching Subfund (00165)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
00165-2IN00  
  
Neighborhood Matching Fund  
  
The purpose of the Neighborhood Matching Fund Budget Control Level is to support local grassroots projects within neighborhoods and communities. The Neighborhood Matching Fund provides funding to match community contributions of volunteer labor, donated professional services and materials, or cash, to implement community-based self-help projects.  
  
$ 3,092,949  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund, Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities (00168)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00168-A1AP1  
  
Asset Preservation - Civic Core (00168-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Civic Core Budget Control Level (BCL) is to replace components of Civic Core buildings at the end of their useful lives. This BCL is funded by CRS Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities dollars (Fund 00168).  
  
$ 370,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund, Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities (00168)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00168-A1AP6  
  
Asset Preservation - Public Safety Facilities (00168-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Public Safety Facilities Budget Control Level (BCL) is to replace components of public safety facilities at the end of their useful lives. This BCL is funded by CRS Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities dollars (Fund 00168).  
  
$ 550,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund, Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities (00168)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00168-A1AP2  
  
Asset Preservation - Seattle Municipal Tower (00168-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Seattle Municipal Tower Budget Control Level (BCL) is to replace components of the Seattle Municipal Tower at the end of their useful lives. This BCL is funded by CRS Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities dollars (Fund 00168).  
  
$ 3,650,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund, Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities (00168)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00168-A1AP4  
  
Asset Preservation - Shops and Yards (00168-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Shops and Yards Budget Control Level (BCL) is to replace components of shop and yard facilities at the end of their useful lives. This BCL is funded by CRS Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities dollars (Fund 00168).  
  
$ 650,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Street Vacation Subaccount (00169)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
00169-CRS-StVac-SDOT  
  
CRS Street Vacation Support to Transportation  
  
The purpose of the CRS Street Vacation Support to Transportation Budget Control Level is to appropriate funds from the CRS Street Vacation Subaccount to the Transportation Operating Fund to support specific capital programs.  
  
$ 1,188,500  
  
Transit Benefit Subfund (00410)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
00410-TRANSITB1  
  
Transit Benefit  
  
The purpose of the Transit Benefit Budget Control Level is to provide appropriation authority for the transit benefits offered to City employees. The Transit Benefit Subfund receives payments from Finance General and fee supported departments to pay for reduced cost King County Metro and Washington State Ferry transit passes and related administrative expenses.  
  
$ 4,900,000  
  
Special Employment Program Subfund (00515)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
00515-NT000  
  
Special Employment  
  
The purpose of the Special Employment Budget Control Level is to capture the expenditures associated with outside agency use of the City's temporary, intern, and work study programs. Outside agencies reimburse the City for costs. Expenses related to employees hired by City departments through the Special Employment Program are charged directly to the departments.  
  
$ 321,576  
  
Industrial Insurance Subfund (00516)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
00516-NR500  
  
Industrial Insurance  
  
The purpose of the Industrial Insurance Budget Control Level is to provide for medical, wage replacement, pension and disability claims related to occupational injuries and illnesses, occupational medical monitoring, workplace safety programs, and related expenses. Since 1972, the City of Seattle has been a self-insured employer as authorized under state law. The Industrial Insurance Subfund receives payments from City departments to pay for these costs and related administrative expenses.  
  
$ 17,372,740  
  
Unemployment Insurance Subfund (00517)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
00517-NS000  
  
Unemployment Insurance  
  
The purpose of the Unemployment Insurance Budget Control Level is to provide the budget authority for the City to pay unemployment compensation expenses. The City is a self-insured employer with respect to unemployment insurance. The Unemployment Insurance Subfund contains the revenues and expenditures associated with the City's unemployment benefit costs for employees.  
  
$ 2,821,162  
  
Health Care Subfund (00627)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
00627-NM000  
  
Health Care  
  
The purpose of the Health Care Budget Control Level is to provide for the City's medical, dental, and vision insurance programs; the Flexible Spending Account; the Employee Assistance Program; and COBRA continuation coverage costs. The City is self-insured and re-insured for some medical plans, and carries insurance for other medical plans and for all dental and vision plans.  
  
$ 152,611,802  
  
Group Term Life Insurance Subfund (00628)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
00628-NA000  
  
Group Term Life  
  
The purpose of the Group Term Life Budget Control Level is to provide appropriation authority for the City's group term life insurance, long-term disability insurance, and accidental death and dismemberment insurance.  
  
$ 6,164,483  
  
Park and Recreation Fund (10200)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K430A  
  
Environmental Learning and Programs  
  
The purpose of the Environmental Learning and Programs Budget Control Level (BCL) is to deliver and manage environmental stewardship programs and the City's environmental education centers at Discovery Park, Carkeek Park, Seward Park, and Camp Long. The programs are designed to encourage Seattle residents to take actions that respect the rights of all living things and environments, and to contribute to healthy and livable communities.  
  
$ 3,747,150  
  
Park and Recreation Fund (10200)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K320A  
  
Facility and Structure Maintenance  
  
The purpose of the Facility and Structure Maintenance Budget Control Level (BCL) is to repair and maintain park buildings and infrastructure so that park users can have structurally sound and attractive parks and recreational facilities.  
  
$ 13,616,591  
  
Park and Recreation Fund (10200)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K390A  
  
Finance and Administration  
  
The purpose of the Finance and Administration Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide the financial, technological, and business development support necessary to provide effective delivery of the Department's services.  
  
$ 7,885,329  
  
Park and Recreation Fund (10200)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K400A  
  
Golf  
  
The purpose of the Golf Budget Control Level (BCL) is to efficiently manage the City's four golf courses at Jackson, Jefferson, West Seattle, and Interbay to provide top-quality public golf courses that maximize earned revenues.  
  
$ 9,417,669  
  
Park and Recreation Fund (10200)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K380A  
  
Judgment and Claims  
  
The Judgment and Claims Budget Control Level (BCL) pays for judgments, settlements, claims, and other eligible expenses associated with legal claims and suits against the City. Premiums are based on average percentage of Judgment/Claims expenses incurred by the Department over the previous five years.  
  
$ 1,143,365  
  
Park and Recreation Fund (10200)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K430B  
  
Natural Resources Management  
  
The purpose of the Natural Resources Management Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide cost efficient and centralized management for the living assets of the Department of Parks and Recreation. Direct management responsibilities include greenhouses, nurseries, the Volunteer Park Conservatory, landscape and urban forest restoration programs, sport field turf management, water conservation programs, pesticide reduction and wildlife management, and heavy equipment support for departmental operations and capital projects.  
  
$ 6,599,106  
  
Park and Recreation Fund (10200)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K320B  
  
Park Cleaning, Landscaping, and Restoration  
  
The purpose of the Park Cleaning, Landscaping, and Restoration Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide custodial, landscape, and forest maintenance and restoration services in an environmentally sound fashion to provide park users with safe, useable, and attractive park areas.  
  
$ 26,356,978  
  
Park and Recreation Fund (10200)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K370C  
  
Planning, Development, and Acquisition  
  
The purpose of the Planning, Development, and Acquisition Budget Control Level (BCL) is to acquire, plan, design, and develop new park facilities, and make improvements to existing park facilities to benefit the public. This effort includes providing engineering and other technical services to solve maintenance and operational problems. This BCL also preserves open spaces through a combination of direct purchases, transfers, and consolidations of City-owned lands and resolution of property encroachment issues.  
  
$ 6,250,827  
  
Park and Recreation Fund (10200)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K390B  
  
Policy Direction and Leadership  
  
The purpose of the Policy Direction and Leadership Budget Control Level is to provide policy guidance within the Department and outreach to the community on policies that enable the Department to offer outstanding parks and recreation opportunities to Seattle residents and our guests. It also provides leadership in establishing new partnerships or strengthening existing ones in order expand recreation services.  
  
$ 5,000,018  
  
Park and Recreation Fund (10200)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K310D  
  
Recreation Facilities and Programs  
  
The purpose of the Recreation Facilities and Programs Budget Control Level (BCL) is to manage and staff the City's neighborhood community centers and Citywide recreation facilities and programs, which allow Seattle residents to enjoy a variety of social, athletic, cultural, and recreational activities.  
  
$ 21,042,061  
  
Park and Recreation Fund (10200)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K350A  
  
Seattle Aquarium  
  
The purpose of the Seattle Aquarium Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide exhibits and environmental educational opportunities that expand knowledge of, inspire interest in, and encourage stewardship of the aquatic wildlife and habitats of Puget Sound and the Pacific Northwest.  
  
$ 3,875,585  
  
Park and Recreation Fund (10200)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K320C  
  
Seattle Conservation Corps  
  
The purpose of the Seattle Conservation Corps Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide training, counseling, and employment to homeless and unemployed people so that they acquire skills and experience leading to long-term employment and stability.  
  
$ 3,913,185  
  
Park and Recreation Fund (10200)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K310C  
  
Swimming, Boating, and Aquatics  
  
The purpose of the Swimming, Boating, and Aquatics Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide a variety of structured and unstructured water-related programs and classes so participants can enjoy and develop skills in a range of aquatic activities.  
  
$ 7,520,821  
  
Park and Recreation Fund (10200)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K350B  
  
Woodland Park Zoo  
  
The purpose of the Woodland Park Zoo Budget Control Level is to provide care for animals and offer exhibits, educational programs, and appealing visitor amenities so Seattle residents and visitors have the opportunity to enjoy and learn about animals and wildlife conservation.  
  
$ 6,587,726  
  
Gasworks Park Contamination Remediation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10220-K72582  
  
Gas Works Park Remediation (10220-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Gas Works Park Remediation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide ongoing monitoring efforts to ensure the measures constructed for remediation of soils at Gas Works Park were effective. This BCL is funded by the 2000 Parks Levy Fund dollars (Fund 33850).  
  
$ 20,000  
  
Transportation Operating Fund (10310)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
10310-17001  
  
Bridges & Structures  
  
The purpose of the Bridges and Structures Budget Control Level is to maintain the City's bridges and structures which helps provide for the safe and efficient movement of people, goods and services throughout the city.  
  
$ 7,721,299  
  
Transportation Operating Fund (10310)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
10310-18001  
  
Department Management  
  
The purpose of the Department Management Budget Control Level is to provide leadership and operations support services to accomplish the mission and goals of the department.  
  
$ 10,568,517  
  
Transportation Operating Fund (10310)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
10310-17002  
  
Engineering Services  
  
The purpose of the Engineering Services Budget Control Level is to provide construction management for capital projects, engineering support for street vacations, the scoping of neighborhood projects, and other transportation activities requiring transportation engineering and project management expertise.  
  
$ 1,624,523  
  
Transportation Operating Fund (10310)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
10310-18002  
  
General Expense  
  
The purpose of the General Expense Budget Control Level is to account for certain City business expenses necessary to the overall effective and efficient delivery of transportation services. It equitably recovers funding from all transportation funding sources to pay for these indirect cost services. It also includes Judgment and Claims contributions and debt service payments.  
  
$ 30,286,344  
  
Transportation Operating Fund (10310)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
10310-19001  
  
Major Maintenance/Replacement  
  
The purpose of the Major Maintenance/Replacement Budget Control Level is to provide maintenance and replacement of roads, trails, bike paths, bridges and structures.  
  
$ 41,529,999  
  
Transportation Operating Fund (10310)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
10310-19002  
  
Major Projects  
  
The purpose of the Major Projects Budget Control Level is to design, manage and construct improvements to the transportation infrastructure for the benefit of the traveling public including freight, transit, other public agencies, pedestrians, bicyclists and motorists.  
  
$ 99,351,944  
  
Transportation Operating Fund (10310)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
10310-19003  
  
Mobility-Capital  
  
The purpose of the Mobility-Capital Budget Control Level is to help maximize the movement of traffic throughout the city by enhancing all modes of transportation including corridor and intersection improvements, transit and HOV improvements, and sidewalk and pedestrian facilities.  
  
$ 46,482,389  
  
Transportation Operating Fund (10310)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
10310-17003  
  
Mobility-Operations  
  
The purpose of the Mobility-Operations Budget Control level is to promote the safe and efficient operation of all transportation modes in the city. This includes managing the parking, pedestrian, and bicycle infrastructure; implementing neighborhood plans; encouraging alternative modes of transportation; and maintaining and improving signals and the non-electrical transportation management infrastructure.  
  
$ 35,139,562  
  
Transportation Operating Fund (10310)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
10310-17004  
  
ROW Management  
  
The purpose of the Right-of-Way (ROW) Management Budget Control Level is to ensure that projects throughout the city meet code specifications for uses of the right-of-way and to provide plan review, utility permit and street use permit issuance, and utility inspection and mapping services.  
  
$ 11,524,423  
  
Transportation Operating Fund (10310)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
10310-17005  
  
Street Maintenance  
  
The purpose of the Street Maintenance Budget Control Level is to maintain the City's roadways and sidewalks. Repair and maintenance of the right-of- way promotes safety, enhances mobility, and protects the environment. Through planned maintenance, cleaning and spot repairs of streets, alleys, pathways and stairways, Street Maintenance improves the quality of life and business climate in the city.  
  
$ 22,019,373  
  
Transportation Operating Fund (10310)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
10310-17006  
  
Urban Forestry  
  
The purpose of the Urban Forestry Budget Control Level is to administer, maintain, protect and expand the City's urban landscape in the street right- of-way through the maintenance and planting of new trees and landscaping to enhance the environment and aesthetics of the city. The Urban Forestry BCL maintains City-owned trees to improve the safety of the right-of-way for Seattle's residents and visitors.  
  
$ 4,402,628  
  
Library Fund (10410)  
  
The Seattle Public Library  
  
10410-B1ADM  
  
Administrative Services  
  
The purpose of the Administrative Services Program is to support the delivery of library services to the public.  
  
$ 9,375,717  
  
Library Fund (10410)  
  
The Seattle Public Library  
  
10410-B2CTL  
  
City Librarian's Office  
  
The purpose of the City Librarian's Office is to provide leadership for the Library in the implementation of policies and strategic directions set by the Library Board of Trustees.  
  
$ 1,030,071  
  
Library Fund (10410)  
  
The Seattle Public Library  
  
10410-B5HRS  
  
Human Resources  
  
The purpose of Human Resources is to provide responsive and equitable services, including human resources policy development, recruitment, classification and compensation, payroll, labor and employee relations, volunteer services, and staff training services so that the Library maintains a productive and well-supported work force.  
  
$ 1,037,672  
  
Library Fund (10410)  
  
The Seattle Public Library  
  
10410-B3CTS  
  
Information Technology  
  
The purpose of Information Technology is to provide quality data processing infrastructure and services so that Library patrons and staff have free and easy access to a vast array of productivity tools, ideas, information, and knowledge.  
  
$ 3,241,948  
  
Library Fund (10410)  
  
The Seattle Public Library  
  
10410-B4PUB  
  
Library Services  
  
The purpose of the Library Services Division is to provide services, materials, and programs that benefit and are valued by Library patrons. Library Services provides technical and collection services in order to provide information access and Library materials to all patrons.  
  
$ 37,118,226  
  
Streetcar Fund (10810)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
10810-STCAR-OPER  
  
Streetcar Operations  
  
The purpose of the Streetcar Operations Budget Control Level is to operate and maintain the South Lake Union line of the Seattle Streetcar.  
  
$ 878,273  
  
Pike Place Levy (11010)  
  
Executive  
  
11010-PKLVYBCL-02  
  
Pike Place Market Renovation Debt Service  
  
The purpose of the Pike Place Market Renovation Debt Service Budget Control Level is to provide appropriation authority for the City's payment of debt service for debt issued in support of the Pike Place Market Renovation funded by levy proceeds.  
  
$ 4,101,750  
  
Seattle Center Fund (11410)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
11410-SC670  
  
Access  
  
The purpose of the Access Budget Control Level is to provide the services needed to assist visitors in coming to and traveling from the campus, while reducing congestion in adjoining neighborhoods. Program services include operating parking services, maintaining parking garages, managing the Seattle Center Monorail, and encouraging use of alternate modes of transportation.  
  
$ 1,135,412  
  
Seattle Center Fund (11410)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
11410-SC690  
  
Administration-SC  
  
The purpose of the Administration Budget Control Level is to provide the financial, human resource, technology, and business support necessary to provide effective delivery of the Department's services. Program services include administrative oversight and support to all other department programs, financial management of the Department's operating funds, and management of the Department's Capital Improvement Program.  
  
$ 6,920,926  
  
Seattle Center Fund (11410)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
11410-SC600  
  
Campus Grounds  
  
The purpose of the Campus Grounds Budget Control Level is to provide gathering spaces and open-air venues in the City's urban core. The grounds knit together the whole of the campus and are Seattle Center's biggest asset. Program services include landscape maintenance, security patrols and lighting, litter and garbage removal, recycling operations, hard surface and site amenities maintenance, and management of revenues associated with leasing outdoor spaces.  
  
$ 11,560,165  
  
Seattle Center Fund (11410)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
11410-SC640  
  
Commercial Events  
  
The purpose of the Commercial Events Budget Control Level is to provide the spaces and services needed to host a wide variety of commercial events, both for profit and not for profit, sponsored and produced by private and community promoters.  
  
$ 942,407  
  
Seattle Center Fund (11410)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
11410-SC620  
  
Community Programs  
  
The purpose of the Community Programs Budget Control Level is to produce free and low-cost programs that connect diverse cultures, create learning opportunities, honor community traditions, and nurture artistry and creativity.  
  
$ 2,037,462  
  
Seattle Center Fund (11410)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
11410-SC630  
  
Cultural Facilities  
  
The purpose of the Cultural Facilities Budget Control Level is to provide spaces for performing arts and cultural organizations to exhibit, perform, entertain, and create learning opportunities for diverse local, national, and international audiences.  
  
$ 212,848  
  
Seattle Center Fund (11410)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
11410-SC680  
  
Debt  
  
The purpose of the Debt Budget Control Level is to provide payments and collect associated revenues related to the debt service for McCaw Hall.  
  
$ 135,994  
  
Seattle Center Fund (11410)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
11410-SC610  
  
Festivals  
  
The purpose of the Festivals Budget Control Level is to provide a place for the community to hold major festival celebrations. This program includes the revenue and expenses related to the Giant Magnet, Northwest Folklife Festival, Bite of Seattle, and Bumbershoot events.  
  
$ 715,490  
  
Seattle Center Fund (11410)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
11410-SC710  
  
Judgment and Claims  
  
The Judgment/Claims Budget Control Level pays for judgments, settlements, claims, and other eligible expenses associated with legal claims and suits against the City. Premiums are based on average percentage of Judgment/Claims expenses incurred by the Department over the previous five years.  
  
$ 931,564  
  
Seattle Center Fund (11410)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
11410-SC660  
  
KeyArena  
  
The purpose of the KeyArena Budget Control Level is to manage and operate the KeyArena as the premier entertainment venue in the Seattle region. Included in this category are all operations related to sports teams playing in the arena, along with concerts, family shows, and private meetings.  
  
$ 5,800,596  
  
Seattle Center Fund (11410)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
11410-SC650  
  
McCaw Hall  
  
The McCaw Hall Budget Control Level includes funds for the operation and maintenance of the McCaw Hall as the premier performing arts venue in the Seattle region. In cooperation with Seattle Opera and Pacific Northwest Ballet, Seattle Center manages and operates McCaw Hall as the home of the Opera and Ballet. The Seattle International Film Festival also holds its annual festival and many other film screenings in this facility.  
  
$ 4,069,262  
  
Planning and Development Fund (15700)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
15700-U24A0  
  
Annual Certification and Inspection  
  
The purpose of the Annual Certification and Inspection Budget Control Level is to provide inspections of mechanical equipment at installation and on an annual or biennial cycle in a fair, reasonable, efficient, and predictable manner. These services are provided so mechanical equipment is substantially maintained to applicable codes, legal requirements and policies, and operated safely. The program also certifies that installers and mechanics are qualified, by validation of work experience and testing of code knowledge, to operate and maintain mechanical equipment. In addition, this budget control level includes a proportionate share of associated departmental administration and other overhead costs.  
  
$ 3,979,908  
  
Planning and Development Fund (15700)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
15700-U2400  
  
Code Compliance  
  
The purpose of the Code Compliance Budget Control Level is to see that properties and buildings are used and maintained in conformance with code standards, and deterioration of structures and properties is reduced. Additionally, this budget control level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.  
  
$ 4,796,445  
  
Planning and Development Fund (15700)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
15700-U23A0  
  
Construction Inspections  
  
The purpose of the Construction Inspections Budget Control Level is to provide timely on-site inspections of property under development to support substantial compliance with applicable City codes, ordinances, and approved plans. Additionally, this budget control level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.  
  
$ 13,750,325  
  
Planning and Development Fund (15700)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
15700-U2300  
  
Construction Permit Services  
  
The purpose of the Construction Permit Services Budget Control Level is to facilitate the review of development plans and processing of permits so that applicants can plan, alter, construct, occupy, and maintain Seattle's buildings and property. Additionally, this budget control level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.  
  
$ 17,544,497  
  
Planning and Development Fund (15700)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
15700-U2200  
  
Land Use Services  
  
The purpose of the Land Use Services Budget Control Level is to provide land use permitting services to project applicants, City of Seattle departments, public agencies, and residents. These services are intended to allow development proposals to be reviewed in a fair, reasonable, efficient, and predictable manner, and substantially comply with applicable codes, legal requirements, policies, and community design standards. Additionally, this budget control level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.  
  
$ 4,257,843  
  
Planning and Development Fund (15700)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
15700-U2900  
  
Planning  
  
The purpose of the Planning Budget Control Level is to manage growth and development consistent with Seattle's Comprehensive Plan, and to inform and guide decisions for shaping and preserving Seattle so that it remains a vital urban environment. Additionally, the Planning Budget Control Level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.  
  
$ 5,464,331  
  
Planning and Development Fund (15700)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
15700-U2800  
  
Process Improvements and Technology  
  
The purpose of the Process Improvements and Technology Budget Control Level is to allow the department to plan and implement continuous improvements to its business processes, including related staff training and equipment purchases; and to see that the Department's major technology investments are maintained, upgraded, or replaced when necessary.  
  
$ 1,299,573  
  
Human Services Operating Fund (16200)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
16200-H60AD  
  
Aging and Disability Services - Area Agency on Aging  
  
The purpose of the Aging and Disability Services - Area Agency on Aging Budget Control Level is to provide a network of community support that improves choice, promotes independence, and enhances the quality of life for older people and adults with disabilities.  
  
$ 32,777,398  
  
Human Services Operating Fund (16200)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
16200-H90CS  
  
Community Support and Self Sufficiency  
  
The purpose of the Community Support and Self-Sufficiency Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide Seattle families with nutrition assistance, citizenship assistance, access to public benefits, and other family support resources so that families can maintain or achieve economic self-sufficiency and children will gain the necessary skills and assets to be healthy, successful in school, and contributing members of the community. The BCL also supports the City's response to domestic violence and sexual assault prevention programs.  
  
$ 11,850,290  
  
Human Services Operating Fund (16200)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
16200-H50LA  
  
Leadership and Administration  
  
The purpose of the Leadership and Administration Budget Control Level is to provide leadership and support to the Human Services Department, the City of Seattle, and the community, with the goal of seeing that human services are responsive to community needs, are delivered through effective and accountable systems, economic disparity is decreased, and racism and other oppressions are dismantled.  
  
$ 7,285,638  
  
Human Services Operating Fund (16200)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
16200-H70PH  
  
Public Health Services  
  
The purpose of the Public Health Services Budget Control Level is to provide funds for the following public health services and programs: primary care medical, dental, and specialty services, and access to health insurance for at-risk and vulnerable populations; health care for teens in Seattle's public schools; health care for homeless individuals and families; HIV/AIDS prevention and care programs; programs to provide access to chemical and dependency services; programs to reduce the disparities in health among the Seattle population; and public health nursing care home visits to give mothers and babies a healthy start in life.  
  
$ 11,869,644  
  
Human Services Operating Fund (16200)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
16200-H30ET  
  
Transitional Living and Support  
  
The purpose of the Transitional Living and Support Budget Control Level (formerly Emergency and Transitional Services) is to provide resources and services to Seattle's low-income and homeless residents, work to prevent and end homelessness, and reduce hunger by funding shelter, housing, food and meal programs for individuals and families with very low-incomes.  
  
$ 28,820,344  
  
Human Services Operating Fund (16200)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
16200-H20YF  
  
Youth and Family Empowerment  
  
The purpose of the Youth and Family Empowerment Budget Control Level is to provide children, youth and families with the skills, knowledge, and support they need to live healthy and productive lives, including access to affordable, culturally relevant, high-quality child care and pre-school education, out-of-school time activities, nutrition assistance, and programs designed to help youth succeed academically, learn job and life skills, and develop alternatives to criminal activity, violence and homelessness.  
  
$ 17,445,145  
  
Low Income Housing Fund (16400)  
  
Executive  
  
16400-XZ-R1  
  
Low-Income Housing Fund 16400  
  
The purpose of the Low-Income Housing Fund 16400 Budget Control Level is to fund multi-family housing production, and to support homeownership and sustainability.  
  
$ 34,052,774  
  
Housing Operating Fund (16600)  
  
Executive  
  
16600-XZ600  
  
Office of Housing Operating Fund 16600  
  
The purpose of the Office of Housing Operating Fund 16600 Budget Control Level is to fund the department's administration activities.  
  
$ 4,458,874  
  
Community Development Block Grant Fund  
  
Executive  
  
17810-6XD10  
  
CDBG - Office of Economic Development  
  
The purpose of the CDBG - Office of Economic Development Budget Control Level is to help create and maintain healthy businesses, thriving neighborhoods, and community organizations to contribute to a robust economy that will benefit all Seattle residents and future generations.  
  
$ 4,091,175  
  
Community Development Block Grant Fund  
  
Executive  
  
17810-6XZ10  
  
CDBG - Office of Housing  
  
The purpose of the CDBG - Office of Housing Budget Control Level is to provide opportunities for residents to thrive by investing in and promoting the development and preservation of affordable housing.  
  
$ 1,960,075  
  
Community Development Block Grant Fund  
  
Human Services Department  
  
17810-6HSD10  
  
CDBG - Human Services Department  
  
The purpose of the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) - Human Services Department Budget Control Level is to find and fund solutions for human needs so low-income, vulnerable residents in greater Seattle can live and thrive.  
  
$ 4,821,394  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund (17856)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17856-IL900  
  
Academic Improvement Activities  
  
The purpose of the Academic Improvement Activities Budget Control Level is to provide resources and technical support for improving academic performance.  
  
$ 150,000  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund (17856)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17856-IL700  
  
Administration and Evaluation  
  
The purpose of the Administration and Evaluation Budget Control Level is to see that Levy funds are used effectively and achieve their intended goals.  
  
$ 505,797  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund (17856)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17856-IL100  
  
Early Learning  
  
The purpose of the Early Learning Budget Control Level is to increase access for low-income families to higher quality and more extensive educational child care, and to expand the number of current early childhood education programs to allow children to enter Seattle's schools ready to learn.  
  
$ 2,518,341  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund (17856)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17856-IL200  
  
Family Support and Family Involvement  
  
The purpose of the Family Support and Family Involvement Budget Control Level is to provide culturally relevant family support services and community resources in schools, and to create authentic partnerships among schools, parents, and communities.  
  
$ 2,096,493  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund (17856)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17856-IL800  
  
Middle School Support  
  
The purpose of the Middle School Support Budget Control Level is to provide early intervention services to middle school students to improve their ability to achieve academically and to complete school.  
  
$ 990,443  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund (17856)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17856-IL400  
  
Out-of-School Time  
  
The purpose of the Out-of-School Time Budget Control Level is to provide safe and academically focused after-school programs for middle and elementary school students.  
  
$ 1,990,672  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund (17856)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17856-IL500  
  
Student Health  
  
The purpose of the Student Health Budget Control Level is to maintain the existing infrastructure of school-based health services to reduce health-related barriers to learning and academic achievement.  
  
$ 2,776,310  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund (17856)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17856-IL300  
  
Support for High-Risk Middle and High School Age Youth  
  
The purpose of the Support for High-Risk Middle and High School Age Youth Budget Control Level is to provide intensive services to middle and high school age youth to reduce risk factors that affect their ability to achieve academically and complete school.  
  
$ 902,455  
  
2011 Families and Education Levy (17857)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17857-IL702  
  
Administration  
  
The purpose of the Administration Budget Control is to ensure that funds are invested effectively to achieve the Levy's goals of school readiness, academic achievement, reduced dropout rates and increased graduation rates, and student preparedness for college and/or careers after high school.  
  
$ 409,396  
  
2011 Families and Education Levy (17857)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17857-IL102  
  
Early Learning and School Readiness  
  
The purpose of the Early Learning and School Readiness Budget Control Level is to ensure that children enter Seattle's schools ready to learn by increasing access for low-income families to higher quality and more extensive educational child care, and expanding the number of current early childhood education programs.  
  
$ 1,706,007  
  
2011 Families and Education Levy (17857)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17857-IL202  
  
Elementary School Academic Achievement  
  
The purpose of the Elementary School Academic Achievement Budget Control Level is to improve Seattle's elementary school-aged children's ability to achieve academically by investing in quality academic support programs.  
  
$ 1,394,262  
  
2011 Families and Education Levy (17857)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17857-IL402  
  
High School Academic Achievement and College/Career Preparation  
  
The purpose of the High School Academic Achievement and College/Career Preparation Budget Control Level is to improve Seattle's high school-aged children's ability to achieve academically, complete school, and be prepared for college and/or careers after high school by investing in quality academic support programs.  
  
$ 831,386  
  
2011 Families and Education Levy (17857)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17857-IL302  
  
Middle School Academic Achievement and College/Career Preparation  
  
The purpose of the Middle School Academic Achievement and College/Career Preparation Budget Control Level is improve Seattle's middle school-aged children's ability to achieve academically, complete school, and be prepared for college and/or careers after high school by investing in quality academic support programs.  
  
$ 1,421,180  
  
2011 Families and Education Levy (17857)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17857-IL602  
  
Research and Evaluation  
  
The purpose of the Research and Evaluation Budget Control Level is to provide research and evaluation of Levy programs to ensure that the City is effectively investing in programs that achieve the Levy's goals of school readiness, academic achievement, reduced dropout rates and increased graduation rates, and student preparedness for college and/or careers after high school.  
  
$ 66,667  
  
2011 Families and Education Levy (17857)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
17857-IL502  
  
Student Health  
  
The purpose of the Student Health Budget Control Level is to reduce health-related barriers to learning so that students can achieve academically, complete school, and be prepared for college and/or careers after high school by investing in school-based health programs located at Seattle Public Schools.  
  
$ 1,711,236  
  
Bond Interest and Redemption  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
20110-DEBTBIRF  
  
Bond Interest and Redemption  
  
The purpose of the Bond Interest and Redemption Budget Control Level is to create legal appropriation authority for debt service payments to be made through the Bond Interest and Redemption Fund (BIRF) from outside sources.  
  
$ 1,524,914  
  
UTGO Bond Interest and Redemption Fund  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
31900-DEBTUTGO  
  
UTGO Debt Service  
  
The purpose of the UTGO Debt Service Budget Control Level is to create the legal appropriations to pay debt service on outstanding Unlimited Tax General Obligation (UTGO) Bonds.  
  
$ 17,025,160  
  
Shoreline Park Improvement Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33110-K72982  
  
West Point Settlement Projects (33110-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the West Point Settlement Projects Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the acquisition and restoration of property in Discovery Park. This BCL is funded by Shoreline Park Improvement Fund dollars (Fund 33110).  
  
$ 810,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33860-K720030  
  
2008 Parks Levy- Forest & Stream Restoration (33860-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Forest & Stream Restoration Budget Control Level (BCL) is to support the work of the Green Seattle Partnership in leveraging work of the Cascade Land Conservatory to re-establish healthy urban forests on City-owned property. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33860).  
  
$ 100,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33860-K720011  
  
2008 Parks Levy- Green Space Acquisition (33860-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Green Space Acquisitions Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for green space park acquisitions identified in the 2008 Parks Levy. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33860).  
  
$ 750,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33860-K720023  
  
2008 Parks Levy- Major Parks (33860-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Major Parks Budget Control Level (BCL) is to support the development or restoration of major neighborhood parks identified in the 2008 Parks Levy. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (33860).  
  
$ 1,018,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33860-K720020  
  
2008 Parks Levy- Neighborhood Parks and Playgrounds (33860-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Neighborhood Parks and Playgrounds Budget Control Level (BCL) is to improve and address safety issues at playgrounds throughout the city identified in the 2008 Parks Levy. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (33860).  
  
$ 6,370,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33860-K720032  
  
2008 Parks Levy- Shoreline Access (33860-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Shoreline Access Budget Control Level (BCL) is to develop existing City-owned street ends to provide publicly accessible shoreline. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33860).  
  
$ 75,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33860-K720041  
  
Opportunity Fund Development (33860-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Opportunity Fund Development Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide funding for development projects identified by neighborhood and community groups. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (33860).  
  
$ 10,008,000  
  
McCaw Hall Capital Reserve  
  
Seattle Center  
  
34070-S0303  
  
McCaw Hall Maintenance Fund (34070-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the McCaw Hall Maintenance Fund Budget Control Level (BCL) is to develop an Asset Preservation Plan for McCaw Hall and fund capital investments in the facility. This BCL is supported by resources from the McCaw Hall Maintenance Fund (Fund 34070).  
  
$ 400,000  
  
2003 Fire Facilities Subfund (34440)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
34440-A1FL1  
  
Neighborhood Fire Stations (34440-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Neighborhood Fire Stations Budget Control Level (BCL) is to replace and renovate fire stations and other emergency response facilities as part of the Fire Facilities and Emergency Response Levy program. This BCL is funded by 2003 Fire Facilities Fund dollars (Fund 34440).  
  
$ 9,232,001  
  
2007 Multipurpose LTGO Bond Fund  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
35100-DEBTISSUE  
  
Debt Issuance Costs  
  
The purpose of the Debt Issuance Costs Budget Control Level is to create the appropriation authority to pay debt issuance costs related to the 2011 Multipurpose Limited Tax General Obligation (LTGO) Debt Issuance.  
  
$ 1,515,302  
  
2012 Multipurpose LTGO Bond Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
35600-K72444  
  
Building Component Renovations (35600-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Building Component Renovations Budget Control Level (BCL) is to rehabilitate and replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and their components. This BCL is funded by Limited Tax General Obligation Bond moneys (Fund 35600).  
  
$ 12,240,000  
  
2012 Multipurpose LTGO Bond Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
35600-K72253  
  
Golf Projects (35600-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Golf Projects Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for Golf related capital Projects. This BCL is funded by Limited Tax General Obligation Bond moneys (Fund 35600).  
  
$ 6,003,000  
  
2012 Multipurpose LTGO Bond Fund  
  
The Seattle Public Library  
  
35600-B35600  
  
Technology Infrastructure Replacement (35600-CIP)  
  
This purpose of Library Technology BCL is to provide for the replacement and upgrade of the high-speed data infrastructure that delivers local-area-network and Internet services to computers at all 26 branch libraries and the Central Library.  
  
$ 756,000  
  
Central Waterfront Improvement Fund  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
35900-CWIF-CAP  
  
Central Waterfront Improvement Fund Support to Transportation  
  
The purpose of the Central Waterfront Improvement Fund Support to Transportation Program is to appropriate funds from the Central Waterfront Improvement Fund to the Transportation Operating Fund for support of the Alaskan Way Viaduct & Seawall Replacement project.  
  
$ 2,000,000  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL900  
  
Compliance and Security  
  
The purpose of the Compliance and Security Budget Control Level is to ensure compliance with federal electric reliability standards and secure critical utility infrastructure.  
  
$ 2,825,188  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL220  
  
Conservation Resources and Environmental Affairs O&M  
  
The purpose of the Conservation Resources and Environmental Affairs O&M Budget Control Level is to design and implement demand-side conservation measures that offset the need for additional generation resources, and to ensure that the utility generates and delivers energy in an environmentally responsible manner. This Budget Control Level also supports the utility's renewable resource development programs.  
  
$ 57,757,071  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL370  
  
Customer Focused - CIP  
  
The purpose of the Customer Focused - CIP Budget Control Level is to provide for the capital costs of customer service connections, meters, and other customer-driven projects, including large inter-agency projects requiring utility services or relocations. This Budget Control Level supports capital projects identified in the Proposed 2012-2017 Capital Improvement Plan.  
  
$ 71,268,536  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL320  
  
Customer Services  
  
The purpose of the Customer Services Budget Control Level is to provide customer services, including metering, billing, account management, and customer information systems.  
  
$ 26,847,557  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL810  
  
Debt Service  
  
The purpose of the Debt Service Budget Control Level is to meet principal repayment and interest obligations on funds borrowed to meet City Light's capital expenditure requirements.  
  
$ 178,150,503  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL310  
  
Distribution Services  
  
The purpose of the Distribution Services Budget Control Level is to provide reliable electricity to customers through cost-effective operation and maintenance of City Light's overhead and underground distribution systems, substations, and transmission systems.  
  
$ 71,786,036  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL550  
  
Financial Services - CIP  
  
The purpose of the Financial Services - CIP Budget Control Level is to provide for the capital costs of rehabilitation and replacement of the utility's financial systems and information technology infrastructure, and the development and implementation of large software applications. This Budget Control Level supports capital projects identified in the Proposed 2012-2017 Capital Improvement Plan.  
  
$ 7,789,846  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL500  
  
Financial Services - O&M  
  
The purpose of the Financial Services - O&M Budget Control Level is to manage the utility's financial health through prudent planning, risk mitigation, and provision of information to drive financial discipline. Information technology services are also provided through this Budget Control Level to support systems and applications used throughout the utility.  
  
$ 28,988,915  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL800  
  
General Expenses  
  
The purpose of the General Expenses Budget Control Level is to provide for the general expenses of the utility that, for the most part, are not directly attributable to a specific organizational unit. These expenditures include insurance, bond issue costs, bond maintenance fees, audit costs, Law Department legal fees, external legal fees, employee benefits (medical and retirement costs), industrial insurance costs, general claims costs, and services provided by the City's internal services departments through the central cost allocation mechanism.  
  
$ 76,568,529  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL400  
  
Human Resources  
  
The purpose of the Human Resources Budget Control Level is to provide employee and management support services, including safety programs, organizational development, training, personnel, and labor relations.  
  
$ 6,790,858  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL720  
  
Long-Term Purchased Power  
  
The purpose of the Long-term Purchased Power Budget Control Level is to acquire wholesale power, transmission, and other related services (including renewable energy credits) to meet the utility's long-term demand for power. This Budget Control Level provides appropriations for planned transactions beyond 24 months in advance.  
  
$ 284,741,917  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL100  
  
Office of Superintendent  
  
The purpose of the Office of the Superintendent Budget Control Level is to provide leadership and broad departmental policy direction to ensure the effective delivery of reliable electric power and maintain the financial health of the utility. The utility's communications and governmental affairs functions are included in this Budget Control Level.  
  
$ 2,923,085  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL250  
  
Power Supply & Environmental Affairs - CIP  
  
The purpose of the Power Supply & Environmental Affairs - CIP Budget Control Level is to provide for the capital costs of maintaining the physical generating plant and associated power license and regulatory requirements. This Budget Control Level supports capital projects identified in the Proposed 2012-2017 Capital Improvement Plan.  
  
$ 46,196,214  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL210  
  
Power Supply O&M  
  
The purpose of the Power Supply O&M Budget Control Level is to provide clean, safe, economic, efficient, reliable sources of electric power for City Light customers. This Budget Control Level supports the power generation and power marketing operations of the utility. Utility-wide support services such as shops, real estate, fleet, and facility management services are also included in this Budget Control Level.  
  
$ 62,449,375  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL710  
  
Short-Term Purchased Power  
  
The purpose of the Short-term Purchased Power Budget Control Level is to acquire wholesale power, transmission, and other related services (including renewable energy credits) to manage the utility's short-term demand given the variability of hydroelectric power. This Budget Control Level provides appropriations for planned transactions of up to 24 months in advance.  
  
$ 67,121,923  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL820  
  
Taxes  
  
The purpose of the Taxes Budget Control Level is to pay City Light's legally required tax payments for state, city, and local jurisdictions. This Budget Control Level includes funding for franchise contract payments negotiated with local jurisdictions in City Light's service territory.  
  
$ 78,472,239  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
41000-SCL360  
  
Transmission and Distribution - CIP  
  
The purpose of the Transmission and Distribution - CIP Budget Control Level is to provide for the capital costs of installation, major maintenance, rehabilitation, and replacement of transmission lines, substations, distribution feeders, transformers, and other elements of the utility's transmission and distribution systems. This Budget Control Level supports capital projects identified in the Proposed 2012-2017 Capital Improvement Plan.  
  
$ 64,871,719  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
43000-N100B-WU  
  
Administration  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Administration Budget Control Level is to provide overall management and policy direction for Seattle Public Utilities, and, more specifically, for the Water Utility, and to provide core financial, human resource, and information technology services.  
  
$ 8,743,482  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
43000-N300B-WU  
  
Customer Service  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Customer Service Budget Control Level is to provide customer service in the direct delivery of essential programs and services that anticipate and respond to customer expectations.  
  
$ 10,010,462  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
43000-C110B  
  
Distribution  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Distribution Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to repair and upgrade the City's water lines, pump stations, and other facilities.  
  
$ 15,194,279  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
43000-N000B-WU  
  
General Expense  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility General Expense Budget Control Level is to appropriate funds to pay the Water utility's general expenses.  
  
$ 136,550,208  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
43000-C160B  
  
Habitat Conservation Program  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Habitat Conservation Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to manage projects directly related to the Cedar River Watershed Habitat Conservation Plan.  
  
$ 4,912,916  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
43000-N400B-WU  
  
Other Operating  
  
The purpose of the Other Operating Budget Control Level is to fund the Water utility's operating expenses for Field Operations, Pre-Capital Planning & Development, Project Delivery, and Utility Systems Management programs.  
  
$ 47,753,721  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
43000-C410B-WU  
  
Shared Cost Projects  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Shared Cost Projects Budget Control Level, which is a Water Capital Improvement Program, is to implement the Water utility's share of capital improvement projects that receive funding from multiple SPU funds.  
  
$ 14,640,817  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
43000-C510B-WU  
  
Technology  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Technology Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program, is to make use of technology to increase the Water utility's efficiency and productivity.  
  
$ 5,357,841  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
43000-C120B  
  
Transmission  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Transmission Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to repair and upgrade the City's large transmission pipelines that bring untreated water to the treatment facilities, and convey water from the treatment facilities to Seattle and its suburban wholesale customers' distribution systems.  
  
$ 1,343,332  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
43000-C140B  
  
Water Quality & Treatment  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Water Quality & Treatment Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to design, construct, and repair water treatment facilities and remaining open-water reservoirs.  
  
$ 6,613,000  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
43000-C150B  
  
Water Resources  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Water Resources Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to manage untreated water to meet anticipated demands at our supply-reliability standard and instream flow requirement, and promote residential and commercial water conservation.  
  
$ 5,616,275  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
43000-C130B  
  
Watershed Stewardship  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Watershed Stewardship Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to implement projects associated with the natural land, forestry, and fishery resources within the Tolt, Cedar, and Lake Youngs watersheds.  
  
$ 1,827,598  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
44010-N100B-DW  
  
Administration  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Administration Budget Control Level is to provide overall management and policy direction for Seattle Public Utilities and, more specifically, for the Drainage and Wastewater Utility, and to provide core financial, human resource, and information technology services.  
  
$ 5,593,540  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
44010-C360  
  
Combined Sewer Overflows  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO) Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by drainage and wastewater revenues, is to plan and construct large infrastructure systems, smaller retrofits, and green infrastructure for CSO control.  
  
$ 26,887,630  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
44010-N300B-DW  
  
Customer Service  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Customer Service Budget Control Level is to provide customer service in the direct delivery of essential programs and services that anticipate and respond to customer expectations.  
  
$ 7,425,526  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
44010-C380  
  
Flooding, Sewer Back-up, and Landslides  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Flooding, Sewer Back-up, and Landslides Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by drainage and wastewater revenues, is to plan, design, and construct systems aimed at preventing or alleviating flooding and sewer backups in the city of Seattle, protecting public health, safety, and property. This program also protects SPU drainage and wastewater infrastructure from landslides, and makes drainage improvements where surface water generated from the City right-of-way contributes to landslides.  
  
$ 24,186,341  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
44010-N000B-DW  
  
General Expense  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility General Expense Budget Control Level is to appropriate funds to pay the Drainage and Wastewater utility's general expenses.  
  
$ 219,634,499  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
44010-N400B-DW  
  
Other Operating  
  
The purpose of the Other Operating Budget Control Level is to fund the Drainage and Wastewater utility's operating expenses for Field Operations, Pre-Capital Planning & Development, Project Delivery, and Utility Systems Management programs.  
  
$ 51,117,159  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
44010-C333B  
  
Protection of Beneficial Uses  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Protection of Beneficial Uses Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by drainage revenues, is to make improvements to the City's drainage system to reduce the harmful effects of stormwater runoff on creeks and receiving waters by improving water quality and protecting or enhancing habitat.  
  
$ 4,799,701  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
44010-C370  
  
Rehabilitation  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Rehabilitation Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by drainage and wastewater revenues, is to rehabilitate or replace existing drainage and wastewater assets in kind, to maintain the current functionality of the system.  
  
$ 12,622,929  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
44010-C350B  
  
Sediments  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Sediments Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by drainage and wastewater revenues, is to restore and rehabilitate natural resources in or along Seattle's waterways.  
  
$ 5,594,648  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
44010-C410B-DW  
  
Shared Cost Projects  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Shared Cost Projects Budget Control Level, a Drainage and Wastewater Capital Improvement Program, is to implement the Drainage and Wastewater utility's share of capital improvement projects that receive funding from multiple SPU funds benefiting the Utility.  
  
$ 14,930,876  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
44010-C510B-DW  
  
Technology  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Technology Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program, is to make use of recent technology advances to increase the Drainage and Wastewater utility's efficiency and productivity.  
  
$ 4,815,426  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
45010-N100B-SW  
  
Administration  
  
The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Administration Budget Control Level is to provide overall management and policy direction for Seattle Public Utilities, and, more specifically, for the Solid Waste Utility, and to provide core financial, human resource, and information technology services.  
  
$ 5,179,597  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
45010-N300B-SW  
  
Customer Service  
  
The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Customer Service Budget Control Level is to provide customer service in the direct delivery of essential programs and services that anticipate and respond to customer expectations.  
  
$ 13,310,286  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
45010-N000B-SW  
  
General Expense  
  
The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility General Expense Budget Control Level is to provide appropriation to pay the Solid Waste utility's general expenses.  
  
$ 129,667,978  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
45010-C230B  
  
New Facilities  
  
The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility New Facilities Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by solid waste revenues, is to design and construct new facilities to enhance solid waste operations.  
  
$ 13,845,159  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
45010-N400B-SW  
  
Other Operating  
  
The purpose of the Other Operating Budget Control Level is to fund the Solid Waste utility's operating expenses for Field Operations, Pre-Capital Planning & Development, Project Delivery, and Utility Systems Management programs.  
  
$ 16,464,429  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
45010-C240B  
  
Rehabilitation and Heavy Equipment  
  
The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Rehabilitation and Heavy Equipment Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by solid waste revenues, is to implement projects to repair and rehabilitate the City's solid waste transfer stations and improve management of the City's closed landfills and household hazardous waste sites.  
  
$ 397,000  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
45010-C410B-SW  
  
Shared Cost Projects  
  
The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Shared Cost Projects Budget Control Level, a Solid Waste Capital Improvement Program, is to implement the Solid Waste utility's share of capital improvement projects that receive funding from multiple SPU funds and will benefit the Solid Waste Fund.  
  
$ 2,536,055  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
45010-C510B-SW  
  
Technology  
  
The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Technology Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program, is to make use of technology to increase the Solid Waste utility's efficiency and productivity.  
  
$ 1,664,804  
  
Parking Garage Operations Fund (46010)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
46010-46011  
  
Pacific Place Garage  
  
The purpose of the Pacific Place Garage Budget Control Level is to provide appropriation authority for the City's expenses to operate the Pacific Place Garage, which is located between Sixth and Seventh Avenues and Pine and Olive Streets in downtown Seattle. The City took over responsibility for the Garage in November 1998.  
  
$ 8,092,861  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund (50300)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
50300-A1000  
  
Budget and Central Services  
  
The purpose of the Budget and Central Services Budget Control Level is to provide executive leadership and a range of planning and support functions, including policy and strategic analysis, budget development and monitoring, financial analysis and reporting, accounting services, information technology services, human resource services, office administration, and central departmental services such as contract review and legislative coordination. These functions promote solid business systems, optimal resource allocation, and compliance with Citywide financial, technology, and personnel policies.  
  
$ 3,930,628  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund (50300)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
50300-A4520  
  
Business Technology  
  
The purpose of the Business Technology Budget Control Level is to plan, strategize, develop, implement, and maintain information technologies to support the City's business activities.  
  
$ 10,270,274  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund (50300)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
50300-A4540  
  
City Purchasing and Contracting Services  
  
The purpose of the City Purchasing and Contracting Services Budget Control Level is to conduct and administer all bids and contracts for Public Works and purchases (products, supplies, equipment, and services) on behalf of City departments.  
  
$ 3,004,722  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund (50300)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
50300-A3000  
  
Facility Services  
  
The purpose of the Facility Services Budget Control Level is to manage most of the City's general government facilities, including the downtown civic campus, police precincts, fire stations, shops and yards, and several parking facilities. Functions include property management, environmental analysis, implementation of environmentally sustainable facility investments, facility maintenance and repair, janitorial services, security services, and event scheduling. The Facility Operations team is also responsible for warehouse, real estate, and mail services throughout the City. These functions promote well-managed, clean, safe, and highly efficient buildings and grounds that house City employees and serve the public.  
  
$ 65,818,736  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund (50300)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
50300-A4510  
  
Financial Services  
  
The purpose of the Financial Services Budget Control Level (BCL) is to oversee and provide technical support to the financial affairs of the City. This BCL performs a wide range of technical and operating functions, such as economic and fiscal forecasting, debt issuance and management, Citywide payroll processing, investments, risk management tax administration, and revenue and payment processing services. In addition, this BCL develops and implements a variety of City financial policies related to the City's revenues, accounting procedures, and risk mitigation. Finally, the BCL provides oversight and guidance to financial reporting, City retirement programs, and public corporations established by the City.  
  
$ 13,239,319  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund (50300)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
50300-A2000  
  
Fleet Services  
  
The purpose of the Fleet Services Budget Control Level is to provide fleet vehicles to City departments; assess and implement environmental initiatives related to both the composition of the City's fleet and the fuels that power it; actively manage and maintain the fleet; procure and distribute fuel; and operate a centralized motor pool. The goal of these functions is to create and support an environmentally responsible and cost-effective Citywide fleet that helps all City departments carry out their work as efficiently as possible.  
  
$ 45,704,553  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund (50300)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
50300-A1GM1  
  
General Government Facilities - General (50300-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the General Government Facilities - General Budget Control Level (BCL) is to execute capital projects in general government facilities. This BCL is funded by Fleets and Facilities Fund dollars (Fund 50300).  
  
$ 3,500,000  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund (50300)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
50300-A4000  
  
Judgment and Claims  
  
The Judgment and Claims Budget Control Level pays for judgments, settlements, claims, and other eligible expenses associated with legal claims and suits against the City. Premiums are based on average percentage of Judgment/Claims expenses incurred by the Department over the previous five years.  
  
$ 361,975  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund (50300)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
50300-A6510  
  
Office of Constituent Services  
  
The purpose of the Office of Constituent Services Budget Control Level (BCL) is to lead City departments to consistently provide services that are easily accessible, responsive, and fair. This includes assistance with a broad range of City services, such as transactions, information requests, and complaint investigations. This BCL includes the City's Customer Service Bureau, the Neighborhood Payment and Information Service Centers, Citywide public disclosure responsibilities, and service-delivery analysts.  
  
$ 2,842,203  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund (50300)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
50300-A4530  
  
Revenue and Consumer Protection  
  
The purpose of the Revenue and Consumer Protection Budget Control Level is to provide regulatory and consumer protection services.  
  
$ 2,348,201  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund (50300)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
50300-A5510  
  
Seattle Animal Shelter  
  
The purpose of the Seattle Animal Shelter Budget Control Level is to provide animal care, enforcement, and spay and neuter services in Seattle to control pet overpopulation and foster public safety. The Shelter also provides volunteer and foster care programs which enables the citizens of Seattle to donate both time and resources and engage in activities which promote animal welfare in Seattle.  
  
$ 3,037,926  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund (50300)  
  
Department of Finance & Administrative Services  
  
50300-A3100  
  
Technical Services  
  
The purpose of the Technical Services Budget Control Level is to plan and administer FAS' Capital Improvement Program. This division attempts to ensure that the City develops high-quality and environmentally sustainable capital facilities for City staff and functions.  
  
$ 2,945,346  
  
Information Technology Fund (50410)  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
50410-D1100  
  
Finance and Administration  
  
The purpose of the Finance and Administration Budget Control Level is to provide human resources, contracting, finance, budget, and accounting services (planning, control, analysis, and consulting) to the Department.  
  
$ 6,299,033  
  
Information Technology Fund (50410)  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
50410-D4400  
  
Office of Electronic Communications  
  
The purpose of the Office of Electronic Communications Budget Control Level is to operate the Seattle Channel, Cable Office, Web sites, and related programs so that technology delivers services and information to residents, businesses, visitors, and employees in an effective way.  
  
$ 7,248,347  
  
Information Technology Fund (50410)  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
50410-D3300  
  
Technology Infrastructure  
  
The purpose of the Technology Infrastructure Budget Control Level is to build and operate the City's corporate communications and computing assets so that the City can manage information more effectively, deliver services more efficiently, and make well-informed decisions.  
  
$ 33,632,163  
  
Information Technology Fund (50410)  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
50410-D2200  
  
Technology Leadership and Governance  
  
The purpose of the Technology Leadership and Governance Budget Control Level is to provide departments with strategic direction and coordination on technology for their respective investment decisions.  
  
$ 1,971,778  
  
Employees' Retirement System Fund  
  
Employees' Retirement System  
  
60100-R1E10  
  
Employees' Retirement  
  
The purpose of the Employees' Retirement Budget Control Level is to manage and administer retirement assets and benefits.  
  
$ 12,257,008  
  
Firefighters Pension Fund (60200)  
  
Firefighters' Pension  
  
60200-R2F01  
  
Firefighters' Pension  
  
The purpose of the Firefighters' Pension Budget Control Level is to provide benefit services to eligible active and retired firefighters and their lawful beneficiaries.  
  
$ 20,188,797  
  
Police Relief and Pension Fund (60400)  
  
Police Relief and Pension  
  
60400-RP604  
  
Police Relief and Pension  
  
The purpose of the Police Relief and Pension Budget Control Level is to provide responsive benefit services to eligible active-duty and retired Seattle police officers.  
  
$ 22,185,344  
  
Beach Maintenance Trust Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
61500-K72447  
  
Docks/Piers/Floats/Seawalls/Shorelines (61500-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Docks/Piers/Floats/Seawalls/Shorelines Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and Recreation's docks, piers, floats, seawalls and shorelines. This BCL is funded by Beach Maintenance Trust Fund dollars (Fund 61500).  
  
$ 25,000  
  
Municipal Arts Fund (62600)  
  
Executive  
  
62600-2VMAO  
  
Municipal Arts Fund  
  
The purpose of the Municipal Arts Fund Budget Control Level (BCL) is to fund the Public Art program which develops engaging art pieces and programs for City facilities, and maintains the City's existing art collection. The BCL appropriates revenues from the Municipal Arts Fund (MAF), of which most come from the City's One Percent for Art program, a program that invests one percent of eligible capital funds in public art.  
  
$ 2,323,698  
  
**TOTAL**  
  
**$ 4,232,593,179 **  
  
Attachment B: Position Modifications for the 2012 Budget  
  
Position Modifications for the 2012 Budget  
  
The following is the list of position modifications for the 2012 Budget that take effect January 3, 2012. The modifications result from budget actions that reclassify positions, abrogate positions, create new positions, transfer existing positions between City departments, or change the status of a position, e.g., from full-time to part-time status. Negative numbers are reductions. The figures in the column labeled "Number" represent net position adjustments as a result of changes contained in the 2012 Budget.  
  
**Department**  
  
**Position Title**  
  
**Position Status**  
  
**Number**  
  
City Budget Office  
  
Executive2  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
**City Budget Office Total**  
  
**-1**  
  
Civil Service Commission  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Civil Service Commission  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
**Civil Service Commission Total**  
  
**-2**  
  
Civil Service Commissions  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Civil Service Commissions  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Civil Service Commissions  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
**Civil Service Commissions Total**  
  
**3**  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Executive2  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Info Technol Prof A,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Info Technol Prof B  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Manager2,Info Technol  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Ofc/Maint Aide  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Personnel Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Personnel Spec,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
StratAdvsr2,Info Technol  
  
PartTime  
  
0  
  
**Department of Information Technology Total**  
  
**-5**  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Com Dev Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Com Dev Spec,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Cust Svc Rep  
  
FullTime  
  
-9  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Cust Svc Rep  
  
PartTime  
  
-7  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Cust Svc Rep Supv  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Cust Svc Rep,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Executive1  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Executive2  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Fin Anlyst,Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Info Technol Systs Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Manager2,CSPI&P  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Neighb District Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Plng&Dev Spec II  
  
FullTime  
  
-4  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Plng&Dev Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
StratAdvsr2,Human Svcs  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
**Department of Neighborhoods Total**  
  
**-37**  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Accountant  
  
FullTime  
  
2  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Actg Tech II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Admin Spec I-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Admin Spec I-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Apprentice  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Capital Prjts Coord,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Civil Engrng Spec,Assoc  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Civil Engrng Spec,Assoc  
  
PartTime  
  
2  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Ed Prgm Asst  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Elecl Systs Supv  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Envrnmtl Anlyst,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Envrnmtl Anlyst,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Events Svc Rep,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Fin Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Gardener  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Laborer  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Laborer  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Landscape Architect,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Maint Laborer  
  
FullTime  
  
2  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Maint Laborer  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Manager2,CSPI&P  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Manager2,P&FM  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Manager2,P&FM  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Manager2,Parks&Rec  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Manager3,Parks&Rec  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Parks Concss Coord  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Payroll Supv  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Plng&Dev Spec II  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Real Property Agent,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Attendant  
  
FullTime  
  
-21  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Attendant  
  
PartTime  
  
28  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Cntr Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
-4  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Cntr Coord  
  
PartTime  
  
8  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Cntr Coord,Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
-11  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Leader  
  
FullTime  
  
-11  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Leader  
  
PartTime  
  
12  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Prgm Coord,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
2  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
StratAdvsr1,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
StratAdvsr2,Engrng&Plans Rev  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
StratAdvsr2,Engrng&Plans Rev  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
StratAdvsr2,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Truck Drvr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Util Laborer  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Util Laborer  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
**Department of Parks and Recreation Total**  
  
**-14**  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Manager2,Engrng&Plans Rev  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Plng&Dev Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Plng&Dev Spec,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
StratAdvsr2,Engrng&Plans Rev  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
StratAdvsr2,Fin,Bud,&Actg  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
**Department of Planning and Development Total**  
  
**-5**  
  
Educational and Developmental Services Levy  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Educational and Developmental Services Levy  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Educational and Developmental Services Levy  
  
Executive2  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Educational and Developmental Services Levy  
  
Grants&Contracts Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Educational and Developmental Services Levy  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
2  
  
Educational and Developmental Services Levy  
  
StratAdvsr2,Human Svcs  
  
FullTime  
  
2  
  
**Educational and Developmental Services Levy Total**  
  
**8**  
  
Employees' Retirement System  
  
Info Technol Prof B,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Employees' Retirement System  
  
Retirement Spec,Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Employees' Retirement System  
  
Retirement Spec,Asst  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
Employees' Retirement System  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
**Employees' Retirement System Total**  
  
**2**  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Accountant  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Actg Tech II  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Actg Tech III  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Admin Spec I  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Admin Spec III  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Animal Contrl Ofcr I  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Bldg Operating Engr,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Cust Svc Rep  
  
FullTime  
  
9  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Cust Svc Rep  
  
PartTime  
  
5  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Cust Svc Rep Supv  
  
FullTime  
  
2  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Cust Svc Rep,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Executive2  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Info Technol Prof A,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Info Technol Systs Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Janitor-FFD/CL  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Licenses&Standards Inspector  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Licenses&Standards Inspector  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Manager1,General Govt  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Manager2,CSPI&P  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Manager3,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Parking Meter Collector,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Shop Opns Supv  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
StratAdvsr2,Fin,Bud,&Actg  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Warehouser,Sr-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Finance & Administrative Services  
  
Window Cleaner  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
**Finance & Administrative Services Total**  
  
**-1**  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Admin Spec I-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Admin Spec I-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Counslr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Grants&Contracts Spec  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Grants&Contracts Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Grants&Contracts Spec,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Human Svcs Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Human Svcs Coord  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Plng&Dev Spec II  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Prjt Fund&Agreemts Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
**Human Services Department Total**  
  
**-6**  
  
Law Department  
  
City Attorney,Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
5  
  
Law Department  
  
City Attorney,Asst  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Law Department  
  
City Attorney,Asst-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Law Department  
  
Paralegal  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
**Law Department Total**  
  
**6**  
  
Neighborhood Matching Subfund  
  
Com Dev Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Neighborhood Matching Subfund  
  
Fin Anlyst,Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Neighborhood Matching Subfund  
  
Plng&Dev Spec II  
  
FullTime  
  
3  
  
Neighborhood Matching Subfund  
  
Plng&Dev Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
**Neighborhood Matching Subfund Total**  
  
**6**  
  
Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs  
  
Arts Prgm Spec  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
**Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs Total**  
  
**-1**  
  
Office of City Auditor  
  
StratAdvsr-Audit  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
**Office of City Auditor Total**  
  
**1**  
  
Office of Economic Development  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Office of Economic Development  
  
Com Dev Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Office of Economic Development  
  
Manager1,Parks&Rec  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Office of Economic Development  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
**Office of Economic Development Total**  
  
**2**  
  
Office of Housing  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Office of Housing  
  
Executive2  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Office of Housing  
  
Property Rehab Supv  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
**Office of Housing Total**  
  
**-1**  
  
Office of Intergovernmental Relations  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
**Office of Intergovernmental Relations Total**  
  
**-1**  
  
Office of New Americans  
  
Plng&Dev Spec I  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Office of New Americans  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
**Office of New Americans Total**  
  
**2**  
  
Office of Sustainability and Environment  
  
Manager2,Engrng&Plans Rev  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Office of Sustainability and Environment  
  
Plng&Dev Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Office of Sustainability and Environment  
  
Plng&Dev Spec,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Office of Sustainability and Environment  
  
StratAdvsr2,Engrng&Plans Rev  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
**Office of Sustainability and Environment Total**  
  
**4**  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Fin Anlyst,Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Labor Relations Spec  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Manager2,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Marketing Dev Coord  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Ofc/Maint Aide  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
**Personnel Department Total**  
  
**-1**  
  
Public Safety Civil Service Commission  
  
StratAdvsr1,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
**Public Safety Civil Service Commission Total**  
  
**-1**  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Cement Finisher  
  
FullTime  
  
-8  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Civil Engr,Assoc  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Civil Engr,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
6  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Civil Engrng Spec,Assoc  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Civil Engrng Spec,Asst III  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Civil Engrng Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Constr&Maint Equip Op  
  
FullTime  
  
-4  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Elctn  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Maint Laborer  
  
FullTime  
  
-12  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Maint Laborer,Sr-Traffic  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Manager1,Engrng&Plans Rev  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Manager2,Engrng&Plans Rev  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Manager3,Engrng&Plans Rev  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Manager3,Engrng&Plans Rev  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Parking Pay Stat Tech  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Signal Elctn V  
  
FullTime  
  
-3  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
StratAdvsr1,Fin,Bud,&Actg  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
StratAdvsr2,Engrng&Plans Rev  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Traffic Sign&Marking CC II  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Transp Plnr,Assoc  
  
FullTime  
  
-2  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Truck Drvr  
  
FullTime  
  
-7  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Warehouser,Sr-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
**Seattle Department of Transportation Total**  
  
**-47**  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
Info Technol Prof C-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
2  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
Sfty&Hlth Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
**Seattle Fire Department Total**  
  
**1**  
  
Seattle Office for Civil Rights  
  
Admin Spec I  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Office for Civil Rights  
  
Admin Spec I  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Office for Civil Rights  
  
Admin Spec I-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Office for Civil Rights  
  
Admin Spec I-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Office for Civil Rights  
  
Civil Rights Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
**Seattle Office for Civil Rights Total**  
  
**1**  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Crime Prev Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
-3  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Maint Laborer  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Pol Sgt-Non Patrol  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Pol Sgt-Patrl  
  
FullTime  
  
5  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Pol Sgt-Radio Dispatcher  
  
FullTime  
  
-5  
  
**Seattle Police Department Total**  
  
**-4**  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Capital Prjts Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Executive2  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Manager2,Utils  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Plng&Dev Spec,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Plng&Dev Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Pntr  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Publc Ed Prgm Spec  
  
PartTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
StratAdvsr2,CSPI&P  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
StratAdvsr2,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Util Act Rep I  
  
FullTime  
  
-4  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Wtr Pipe CC-WDM II  
  
FullTime  
  
-1  
  
**Seattle Public Utilities Total**  
  
**-10**  
  
**Citywide Total**  
  
**-101**  
  
  
