* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)117359**   
**Ordinance Number: 123784**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE, relating to City employment, to be known as the 2012 Pay Zone Ordinance; adjusting the pay zone structures for the City's discretionary pay programs for the year 2012.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 12, 2011   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Rasmussen)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 19, 2011   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 19, 2011   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 28, 2011   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN   
**Committee Recommendation:** Pass   
**Date of Committee Recommendation:** December 6, 2011   
**Committee Vote:** 2 (Godden, O'Brien) - 0   
  
*(No indexing available for this document)*  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/117359.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)117359  
  
**Electronic Copy: ** [PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123784](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123784.pdf)  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE, relating to City employment, to be known as the  
    2012 Pay Zone Ordinance; adjusting the pay zone structures for  
    the City's discretionary pay programs for the year 2012.  
  
    WHEREAS, the Accountability Pay for Executives Program (APEX)  
    was established by Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.20.380,  
    which provides for adjustments to the pay zones based on a  
    biennial labor market analysis of selected benchmark titles as  
    recommended by the Personnel Director; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Manager Compensation Program and the Strategic  
    Advisor Compensation Program were established by Seattle  
    Municipal Code Section 4.20.390, which provides for  
    adjustments to the pay zones based on a biennial labor market  
    analysis of selected benchmark titles as recommended by the  
    Personnel Director; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Information Technology Professional Compensation  
    Program was established by Seattle Municipal Code Section  
    4.20.430, which provides for annual adjustments to the pay  
    zones based on a labor market analysis of selected benchmarks  
    that is conducted as needed, but at least every two years as  
    recommended by the Personnel Director; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Investments/Debt Director Compensation Program  
    was established by Seattle Municipal Code 4.20.450, which  
    provides for adjustments to the pay band at least every two  
    years as recommended by the Personnel Director; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Electric Utility Executive Compensation Program  
    was established by Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.20.401,  
    which provides for adjustments to the pay zones at least every  
    two years as recommended by the Personnel Director; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Power Marketer Compensation Program was  
    established by Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.20.440, which  
    provides for adjustments to the pay band based on a biennial  
    labor market analysis as recommended by the Personnel  
    Director; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 118851, Ordinance 119954, Ordinance 120119,  
    and Ordinance 120819 provides that the Personnel Director  
    shall act on behalf of the Legislative Department's appointing  
    authority to recommend all future adjustments to pay bands in  
    the Legislative Department Broadbands; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 121787 established the Mayoral Staff  
    Assistant Discretionary Pay Program and provides for future  
    adjustments to the pay zones to be consistent with cost of  
    living adjustments awarded to non-represented City Step Pay  
    Program titles; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Assistant City Attorney Compensation Program was  
    established by Ordinance 122007, which provides for  
    adjustments to the pay band at least every two years as  
    recommended by the Personnel Director; NOW THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS :  
  
    Section 1. Adjusting the pay zones in the Accountability Pay  
    for Executives (APEX) Compensation Program. As recommended by  
    the Personnel Director, the pay zones in the APEX Compensation  
    Program will be adjusted as shown below. These rates for 2012  
    shall be effective January 4, 2012.  
  
**APEX Titles**  
  
**2011 Pay Zone Rates**  
  
**2012 Pay Zone Rates**  
  
Executive 1  
  
$35.40 - $58.40  
  
$36.03 - $59.45  
  
Executive 2  
  
$41.82 - $69.01  
  
$42.58 - $70.25  
  
Executive 3  
  
$49.39 - $81.49  
  
$50.27 - $82.95  
  
Executive 4  
  
$58.26 - $96.13  
  
$59.31 - $97.86  
  
Section 2 . Adjusting the pay zones in the Manager Compensation Program and the Strategic Advisor Compensation Program. As recommended by the Personnel Director, the pay zones in the Manager Compensation Program and the Strategic Advisor Compensation Program will be adjusted as shown below. The adjustments to each pay zone shall encompass all occupational groups which constitute the class series. All pay zone changes will be effective January 4, 2012.  
**SA/M Titles**  
  
**2011 Pay Zone Rates**  
  
**2012 Pay Zone Rates**  
  
Manager 1 (all classes)  
  
$32.45 - $48.67  
  
$33.03 - $49.55  
  
Manager 2 (all classes)  
  
$35.38 - $53.07  
  
$36.02 - $54.02  
  
Manager 3 (all classes)  
  
$38.70 - $58.06  
  
$39.40 - $59.10  
  
Strategic Advisor 1 (all classes)  
  
$32.45 - $48.67  
  
$33.03 - $49.55  
  
Strategic Advisor 2 (all classes)  
  
$35.38 - $53.07  
  
$36.02 - $54.02  
  
Strategic Advisor 3 (all classes)  
  
$38.70 - $58.06  
  
$39.40 - $59.10  
  
Section 3. Adjusting the pay zones in the Information Technology Professional (ITP) Compensation Program. As recommended by the Personnel Director, the pay zones for titles in the ITP Compensation Program shall be as shown below effective January 4, 2012.  
**ITP Titles**  
  
**2011 Pay Zone Rates**  
  
**2012 Pay Zone Rates**  
  
Information Technology Professional A, Exempt  
  
$38.36 - $57.55  
  
$39.06 - $58.58  
  
Information Technology Professional B (all classes)  
  
$33.75 - $50.63  
  
$34.36 - $51.54  
  
Information Technology Professional C (all classes)  
  
$29.50 - $44.25  
  
$30.03 - $45.05  
  
Section 4. Adjusting the pay band in the Investments/Debt Director Compensation Program. As recommended by the Personnel Director, the pay band for the following titles will be adjusted as shown below effective January 4, 2012.  
**Investments/Debt Director Titles**  
  
**2011 Pay Band Rates**  
  
**2012 Pay Band Rates**  
  
Investments/Debt Director  
  
$39.08 - $78.16  
  
$39.78 - $79.57  
  
Assistant Investments/Debt Director  
  
$39.08 - $78.16  
  
$39.78 - $79.57  
  
Section 5. Adjusting the pay zones in the Electric Utility Executive (EUE) Compensation Program. As recommended by the Personnel Director, the pay zones for titles in the EUE Compensation Program shall be as shown below effective January 4, 2012.  
**EUE Titles**  
  
## 2011 Pay Zone Rates  
  
## 2012 Pay Zone Rates  
  
Electric Utility Executive 1  
  
$42.54 - $68.07  
  
$43.31 - $69.29  
  
Electric Utility Executive 2  
  
$48.91 - $78.26  
  
$49.79 - $79.67  
  
Electric Utility Executive 3, Director  
  
$63.79 - $102.06  
  
$64.94 - $103.90  
  
Electric Utility Executive 3, Officer  
  
$72.96 - $116.74  
  
$74.27 - $118.84  
  
Section 6. Adjusting the pay band in the Power Marketer Compensation Program. As recommended by the Personnel Director, the pay band for the following title will be adjusted as follows effective January 4, 2012.  
**Power Marketer Title**  
  
**2011 Pay Band Rates**  
  
## 2012 Pay Band Rates  
  
### Power Marketer  
  
## $37.87 - $65.90  
  
$38.56 - $67.09  
  
Section 7. Adjusting the pay bands in the Legislative Department and associated titles in the City Auditor's Office. As recommended by the Personnel Director, the pay bands for the following titles will be adjusted as shown below effective January 4, 2012.  
**Legislative Titles**  
  
**2011 Pay Band Rates**  
  
**2012 Pay Band Rates**  
  
Executive Manager-City Auditor  
  
$35.40 - $96.13  
  
$36.03 - $97.86  
  
Executive Manager-Legislative  
  
$35.40 - $96.13  
  
$36.03 - $97.86  
  
Hearing Examiner  
  
$41.82 - $96.13  
  
$42.58 - $97.86  
  
Hearing Examiner, Deputy  
  
$41.82 - $96.13  
  
$42.58 - $97.86  
  
Legislative Assistant  
  
$14.09 - $49.24  
  
$14.35 - $50.13  
  
Strategic Advisor-Audit  
  
$32.45 - $58.06  
  
$33.03 - $59.10  
  
Strategic Advisor-Legislative  
  
$32.45 - $58.06  
  
$33.03 - $59.10  
  
Section 8. Adjusting the pay zones in the Executive Department - Mayor's Office. As recommended by the Personnel Director, the pay zones for the following titles will be adjusted consistent with cost of living adjustments awarded to non- represented City Step Pay Program titles effective January 4, 2012.  
### Mayoral Staff Assistant Titles  
  
## 2011 Pay Zone Rates  
  
## 2012 Pay Zone Rates  
  
### Mayoral Staff Assistant 1  
  
## $14.09 - $28.19  
  
$14.35 - $28.70  
  
### Mayoral Staff Assistant 2  
  
## $24.62 - $49.24  
  
$25.07 - $50.13  
  
Section 9. Adjusting the pay band in the Assistant City Attorney Compensation Program. As recommended by the Personnel Director, the pay band for the Assistant City Attorney Compensation Program shall be as shown below effective January 4, 2012.  
**Assistant** **City** **Attorney Title**  
  
## 2011 Pay Band Rates  
  
## 2012 Pay Band Rates  
  
City Attorney, Assistant  
  
$28.63 - $68.71  
  
$29.14 - $69.95  
  
Section 10. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.  
Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
  
\_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council  
  
Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
Michael McGinn, Mayor  
  
Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
Monica Martinez Simmons, City Clerk  
  
(Seal)  
  
  
