* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)117321**   
**Ordinance Number: 123755**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the Department of Planning and Development and related fees by other departments; repealing a section of Ordinance 123453; and amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 22.900A, Administration and Enforcement; Chapter 22.900B, General Provisions; Chapter 22.900C, Fees for Land Use Review; Chapter 22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment; Chapter 22.900E, Fees for Certificates and Registrations; Chapter 22.900F, Compliance and Other Inspections; and Chapter 22.900G, Fees Collected for Other Departments.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 21, 2011   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Licata)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 30, 2011   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 30, 2011   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 24, 2011   
**Committee:** Special Budget   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN   
**Committee Recommendation:** Pass   
**Date of Committee Recommendation:** November 10, 2011   
**Committee Vote:** 7 (Bagshaw, Burgess, Clark Godden, Harrell, O'Brien, Rasmussen) - 0   
  
*(No indexing available for this document)*  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/117321.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)117321  
  
**Electronic Copy: ** [PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123755](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123755.pdf)  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and  
    activities of the Department of  
    Planning and Development and related fees by other  
    departments; repealing a section of Ordinance 123453; and  
    amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 22.900A,  
    Administration and Enforcement; Chapter 22.900B, General  
    Provisions; Chapter 22.900C, Fees for Land Use Review; Chapter  
    22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment;  
    Chapter 22.900E, Fees for Certificates and Registrations;  
    Chapter 22.900F, Compliance and Other Inspections; and Chapter  
    22.900G, Fees Collected for Other Departments.  
  
    WHEREAS, by Ordinance 123453, effective January 1, 2011, the  
    City Council revised Chapter  
  
    22.900 of the Seattle Municipal Code, related to fees and  
    charges for permits and activities under Seattle's Building  
    and Construction Codes; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the technical correction proposed in Sections 2 and 3  
    of the ordinance herein are  
  
    necessary to accurately and completely record the amendments  
    to Seattle Municipal Code 22.900B.060 intended and approved by  
    the City Council in Ordinance 123453; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Seattle Department of Planning & Development  
    proposes additional corrections  
  
    and revisions to fees and charges for permits and activities  
    under Seattle's Building and Construction Codes; NOW  
    THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1. Subsection 22.900A.060.C of the Seattle Municipal  
    Code, which subsection was last amended by Ordinance 121338,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    22.900A.060 Delinquent fees((  .  
    ))  
  
    * * *  
  
    C. Remedies.  
  
    1. The Director may issue a stop-work order as provided in  
    Section 22.900A.070 ((  where  ))  
     if  the person or persons responsible for payment of a  
    fee have not done so within 30 days after the billing.  
  
    2.  Following notice to the applicant,  ((  
     T  )) t he Director may  
    suspend processing, and/or withhold issuance of a permit,  
    decision, certificate or approval on any application ((  
     where  )) if    
  
  
       
  
    fees have not been fully paid((  , or on any  
    subsequent or concurrent applications by the same person or  
    persons responsible for payment of fees  ))  
    until such time as the fees are paid.  
  
    3.  Following notice to the applicant, the Director may  
    cancel a permit application if fees have not been fully paid.  
  
  
    ((  3.  )) 4. Following notice  
    to the applicant,  ((  T  
    )) t he Director may refer collection of  
    any amounts due under this Subtitle to a collection agency.  
    The cost to the Department for the collection services will be  
    assessed as costs, at the rate agreed to between the  
    Department and the collection agency, and added to the  
    penalty.  
  
    ((  4.  )) 5. Following notice  
    to the applicant,  ((  T  
    )) t he Director may take other actions  
    to collect amounts due, including but not limited to, placing  
    delinquent accounts on a cash-only basis.  
  
    Section 2. Section 10 of Ordinance 123453, which amended  
    Subsection 22.900B.060.A of the Seattle Municipal Code, is  
    repealed.  
  
    Section 3. Subsection 22.900B.060.A of the Seattle Municipal  
    Code, which subsection was last amended by Ordinance 122297,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    22.900B.060 Revisions and additions to applications((  
     .  ))  
  
    A. According to standards promulgated by the Director, the  
    Department may assess an additional fee for the plan  
    examination of previous designs when a subsequent redesign of  
    a project is submitted prior to permit issuance. The revision  
    fee shall be assessed at the  DPD  hourly rate not to  
    exceed the fee that would have been charged for the original  
    design  , provided that if the application is a Land Use  
    application that requires additional Land Use review, the Land  
    Use hourly rate in effect at the time the revision is filed  
    shall be charged for that portion of the work.  The total  
    fee is the fee for the final design plus the revision fee.  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 4. Effective January 1, 2012, or on the effective date  
    of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2012, Section  
    22.900A.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was  
    last amended by Ordinance 121664, is amended as follows:  
  
    22.900A.030 Payment and responsibility for fees((  
     .  ))  
  
    A. No permit shall be issued or approved, no Certificate of  
    Occupancy shall be issued, ((  and  
    ))no drawing or other data relating to such  
    permit shall be examined , and no certificate or license  
    shall be issued  until the corresponding fees prescribed  
    by this subtitle have been paid.  
  
    B. Unless otherwise specified in this subtitle, each distinct  
    component of an application, review, ((  or  
    ))permit , certificate, license, or other  
    fee collected by the Department  shall be charged as a  
    separate fee.  
  
    C. Both the applicant for the permit,  certificate or  
    license  and the owner of the  subject  property ((  
     for which the permit is required,  
    ))are jointly and severally responsible for  
    payment of fees required by this subtitle. However, when an  
    applicant is not the owner and is not acting, even in part, as  
    agent for the owner, the applicant is solely responsible for  
    payment of applicable fees. Applicants and owners are liable  
    for all charges incurred whether or not a favorable decision  
    or recommendation is given by the Director, and regardless of  
    whether a permit is issued ,  ((  or  
    ))the project or application is canceled or  
    denied before permit issuance , or a certificate or license  
    is not issued .  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 5. Effective January 1, 2012, or on the effective date  
    of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2012, Section  
    22.900A.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was  
    last amended by Ordinance 123453, is amended as follows:  
  
    22.900A.040 Administration and enforcement((  .  
    ))  
  
    A. For the purpose of this subtitle, the term "Director" means  
    the Director of the Department or an authorized  
    representative.  
  
    B. The Director is authorized to administer, interpret, and  
    enforce the provisions of this subtitle provided, that:  
  
    ***  
  
    6. The Director of the Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs  
    shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this  
    subtitle that are applicable to the Office's review of  
    projects((  .  )) ; and   
  
     7. The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and  
    Recreation shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of  
    this subtitle that are applicable to the Department of Parks  
    and Recreation review of projects.    
  
    C. The Director is authorized to collect fees listed in the  
    preceding subsection or other fee related legislation for the  
    Seattle Department of Transportation, the Seattle Fire  
    Department, the Seattle-King County Department of Health, the  
    Department of Neighborhoods,  the Department of Parks and  
    Recreation,  or Seattle Public Utilities, and to transfer  
    those funds to them.  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 6. Effective January 1, 2012, or on the effective date  
    of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2012, Subsection  
    22.900B.020.E of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was  
    last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows:  
  
    22.900B.020 Miscellaneous and special fees((  .  
    ))  
  
    ***  
  
    E.  Copies of electronic and ((    
    Microfilm copies of  ))microfilm records.  
  
    Charges for plans reproduced from  electronic records or  
    from  the microfilm library are shown in Table B-1.  
  
**Table B-1 - FEES FOR REPRODUCTIONS FROM ELECTRONIC OR MICROFILM** **RECORDS**  
  
**(( ~~Size or Type of Page ~~))Page Size **  
  
**Price **  
  
**Electronic Records**  
  
8 1/2" X 11"  
  
$0.50** **per printed page  
  
8 1/2" X 14"  
  
$0.50 per printed page  
  
11" X 17"  
  
$0.50 per printed page  
  
**Microfilm Records**  
  
8 1/2" X 11"  
  
$0.75** **per copied page  
  
11" X 17"  
  
$1.50 per copied page  
  
(( ~~Diazo ~~  
  
~~$5.00 per diazo ~~))  
  
\*\*\*  
Section 7. Effective January 1, 2012, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2012, Section 22.900C.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, last amended by Ordinance 123610, is amended as follows:  
  
22.900C.010 Land use fees(( ~~~~ . ~~~~))  
  
\*\*\*  
  
**  
**  
  
**Table C-1 - LAND USE FEES**  
  
**A. MASTER USE PERMIT, ENVIRONMENTAL CRITICAL AREAS, CITY COUNCIL and HEARING EXAMINER APPROVALS **  
  
Hours worked beyond those covered by minimum will be charged the Land Use hourly rate, unless otherwise noted, and are payable at time of invoice.  
  
**Type of Land Use Review**  
  
**Minimum Fee**  
  
General - first 10 hours of review  
  
Land use Hourly x 10  
  
Low-Income Housing - first 24 hours of review^1^  
  
Land use Hourly x 10  
  
1.  
  
Administrative conditional uses (ACUs)  
  
ACUs for community centers, child care centers, adult care centers, private schools, religious facilities and public and private libraries in single family and multi-family zones shall be charged a minimum fee of $1,620 for the first 20 hours. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate of $250 per hour. This exception applies when the application is for an ACU only, or an ACU combined with a variance application.  
  
2.  
  
Design Review  
  
(( ~~Design review, except as provided in item 15 ~~)) The minimum fee for Administrative Design Review and Streamlined Design Review is $2,500. The minimum fee for full Design Review is $5,000, which covers the first 20 hours of review. Refer to Table C-1 \#15 for fees related to Design Review for Tree Protection.  
  
3.  
  
Environmental reviews), including projects with more than one addressed site.  
  
4.  
  
Environmentally critical areas (ECA)  
  
\a. Environmentally Critical Areas variance^2^  
  
\b. ECA Exception  
  
\c. Environmentally Critical Areas Administrative Conditional Use  
  
5.  
  
Shoreline permits  
  
\a. Substantial development permits  
  
\b. Variances^\\ 2\\ ^and conditional uses  
  
6.  
  
Short subdivisions^3^; refer to Table D-2 \#10 for additional fees that may apply to this permit type  
  
7.  
  
Special exceptions  
  
/ / / / /  
  
8.  
  
Variances^2^  
  
Variances for community centers, child care centers, adult care centers, private schools, religious facilities and public and private libraries in single family and multi-family zones shall be charged a minimum fee of $1,620 for the first 20 hours. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate of $250 per hour. This exception applies when the application is for a variance only, or a variance combined only with an ACU application.  
  
9.  
  
Type II land use approvals such as, (( ~~Concept approvals including, ~~)) but not limited to, planned community/ residential development, (( ~~public projects, City facilities, plan shoreline developments, other general development plans ~~))major phased developments and other Type II approvals that are not categorized otherwise in Table C-1.  
  
10.  
  
The minimum fee for Council conditional uses , Rezones, Public Projects and all other Type IV and Type V land use approvals shall be $5,000, which covers the first 20 hours of review.  
  
11.  
  
Full subdivisions^4^; refer to Table D-2 \#10 for additional fees that may apply to this permit type  
  
12.  
  
(( ~~Major Institution 40 hour deposit is required for Master Plans ~~)) Reserved  
  
13.  
  
(( ~~Zoning map changes and rezones ~~))Reserved  
  
  
  
**B. MISCELLANEOUS HOURLY LAND USE REVIEWS, RESEARCH, AND OTHER SERVICES**  
  
Hours worked beyond those covered by minimum will be charged the Land Use hourly rate, unless otherwise noted, and payable at time of invoice.  
  
**Type of Land Use Review**  
  
**Minimum Land Use Review Fee**  
  
14.  
  
Concurrency  
  
Reserved  
  
15.  
  
Design Review for Tree Protection^5^  
  
\a. Design review required by SMC 25.11.070 or 25.11.080 to protect exceptional tree when no other land use reviews are required  
  
Land Use Hourly x 10  
  
\b. Design review elected by applicant for tree protection  
  
Land Use Hourly x 10  
  
16.  
  
Early design guidance  
  
Land Use Hourly x 10  
  
17.  
  
Establishing use for the record: Refer to Table D-2 \#9 for additional fees that may apply to this permit type  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
18.  
  
Land Use Code Interpretations^6^  
  
Land Use Hourly x 10  
  
19.  
  
Letters for detailed zoning analysis or permit research  
  
Land Use Hourly x 4  
  
20.  
  
Lot Boundary Adjustment, Temporary Use \> 4 weeks ; refer to Table D-2 \#10 for additional fees that may apply to this permit type  
  
Land Use Hourly x 5  
  
/ / / / /  
  
21.  
  
Major Institution - review of annual plan  
  
Land Use Hourly x 6  
  
  
  
22.  
  
Major phased development permit - minor amendment  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
  
  
23.  
  
Neighborhood planning  
  
Reserved  
  
24.  
  
Noise survey review and variance  
  
See Table D-2 and Section 22.900F.020  
  
25.  
  
Open space remainder lots and surplus state property  
  
Land Use Hourly x 4  
  
26.  
  
Pre-application conference^7^  
  
Land Use Hourly x (( ~~1 ~~))2  
  
27.  
  
Public benefit feature review  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
28.  
  
Renewals including shoreline renewals  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
29.  
  
Revisions other than shoreline revisions  
  
Land Use Hourly x 1  
  
30.  
  
School use and school development advisory committee reviews  
  
Land Use Hourly x 10  
  
31.  
  
Shoreline exemptions  
  
Land Use Hourly x 1  
  
32.  
  
Shoreline permit revisions not due to required conditions  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
33.  
  
Special accommodation  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
34.  
  
Structural building overhangs and areaways as a separate component  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
35.  
  
Tree and Vegetation Restoration Review in ECA above minimum threshold where SEPA is not required other than for the restoration (25.09.320A3c(2)(b))  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
36.  
  
Street Improvement Exceptions on a Land Use permit  
  
Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
**  
**  
  
**C. NON-HOURLY LAND USE FEES**  
  
**Type of Land Use Review**  
  
###### Fee  
  
37.  
  
Curb cuts as a separate component  
  
\a. Single-family residential  
  
\b. Other than single-family residential  
  
$72 each  
  
$143 each  
  
38.  
  
Intake appointments for land use reviews; fee is charged for each occurrence  
  
###### DPD Base Fee x 1  
  
39.  
  
Notice. All notice is charged based upon type for each occurrence.^8^  
  
\a. Land use information bulletin (GMR notice)  
  
DPD Base Fee x 1  
  
\b. Posting large sign or placards  
  
$109  
  
\c. Mailed notice  
  
DPD Base Fee x 1  
  
/ / / / /  
  
\d. DJC decision publication  
  
$171  
  
\e. Neighborhood newspaper decision publication  
  
$171  
  
\f. Public meeting room rental  
  
$110  
  
40.  
  
Rebuild Letters  
  
\a. With Research  
  
\b. Without Research  
  
DPD Base Fee x 1  
  
$37  
  
41.  
  
Records research by the Public Resource Center  
  
DPD Base Fee x 1  
  
42.  
  
Recording Fees, for LBA, Short Subdivision  
  
Rate charged by King County^9^  
  
Notes to Table C-1:  
\*\*\*  
  
\7. (( ~~~~ Additional notice may be given in circumstances including but not limited to the following: reinstallation of environmental review signs, reposting of the land use review or environmental signs, new component reviews added subsequent to the original notice, revised decisions, and changes to the scope of the project. ~~~~)) The pre-application conference fee covers a one hour conference and one hour of research and/or follow-up review time that normally occurs, for a total of two hours. Additional pre-application review time will be charged at the Land Use hourly rate. See also Section 22.900C.010.E.  
  
\8. (( ~~~~ The pre-application conference fee covers a one hour conference. Additional pre-application review time will be charged at the Land Use hourly rate. See also Section 22.900C.010.E. ~~~~)) Additional notice may be given in circumstances including but not limited to the following: reinstallation of environmental review signs, reposting of the land use review or environmental signs, new component reviews added subsequent to the original notice, revised decisions, and changes to the scope of the project.  
  
\*\*\*  
  
Section 8. Effective January 1, 2012, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2012, Section 22.900D.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, last amended by Ordinance 123453, is amended as follows:  
  
22.900D.010 Development permit fees(( ~~~~ . ~~~~))  
  
\*\*\*  
  
**Table D-2 - CALCULATION OF DEVELOPMENT FEES DETERMINED BY VALUE**  
  
**Percent of Development Fee Index (DFI) Calculated from Project Value as Specified in Table D- 1^1^**  
  
**Type of Development**  
  
**Permit Fee**  
  
**Plan Review Fee**  
  
\1. Building, with or without mechanical, with or without use  
  
100% of DFI  
  
100% of DFI  
  
\2. STFI (Subject to field inspection - building and/or mechanical^2^  
  
100% of DFI  
  
40% of DFI  
  
\3. Energy code compliance review using Target UA and/or System Analysis (RS29).  
  
(included in item \#1)  
  
DPD hourly rate, 1 hour minimum  
  
\4. Mechanical permit:  
  
\a. Submitted as part of a building permit application (if associated with other work)  
  
\b. Submitted separately from a building permit application (if associated with other work) or if applied for as a mechanical only permit (Also see Section 22.900D.090 for mechanical equipment fees)  
  
(See also Section 22.900D.090)  
  
(included in item \#1)  
  
100% of DFI  
  
Mechanical review at the DPD hourly rate,  
  
1 hour minimum  
  
All other applicable reviews at the DPD hourly rate,  
  
1 hour minimum  
  
\5. Blanket permit review fees:  
  
\a. Initial tenant alterations applied for within 18 months of the date of issuance of the first (( ~~tenant permit ~~))certificate of occupancy within a building where the area of work is more than 50,000 sq. ft..  
  
$2.20 per  
  
100 square feet^1^  
  
$2.55 per  
  
100 square feet^1^  
  
\b. Initial tenant alterations applied for after 18 months of the date of issuance of the first (( ~~tenant permit, and other tenant alterations ~~))certificate of occupancy  
  
100% of DFI  
  
60% of DFI  
  
\6. Initial tenant alterations applied for within 18 months of the date of issuance of the first (( ~~tenant permit ~~))certificate of occupancy (nonblanket permit initial tenant improvements to shell and core)^3^  
  
50% of DFI based on new building value of shell and core  
  
50% of DFI based on new building value of shell and core  
  
/ / / / /  
  
\7. Standard plans:  
  
\a. Establishment of standard plan, including temporary structures. (For swimming pools, see Item (( ~~15 ~~))16 below.)  
  
100% of DFI  
  
200% of DFI, plus DPD hourly rate for review/approval of "options"  
  
\b. Establishment of already permitted plan as standard plan  
  
100% of DFI  
  
100% of DFI, plus DPD hourly rate for review/approval of "options"  
  
\c. Subsequent reviews of standard plan, other than temporary structures  
  
100% of DFI  
  
60% of DFI, plus DPD hourly rate for review/approval of "revisions"  
  
\d. Subsequent reviews of standard plans for temporary structures  
  
See Item (( ~~16 ~~))17 below  
  
See Item (( ~~16 ~~))17 below  
  
\8. Factory-built housing and commercial structures  
  
Base fee x 1  
  
Base fee x 1 for each module  
  
**Special Development Fees**  
  
**Type of Development **  
  
**Permit Fee**  
  
**Plan Review Fee**  
  
\9. Establishing use for the record  
  
\a. Applications with no construction  
  
Base fee x 1.5  
  
None  
  
\b. Applications with construction: Refer to Table C-1, Item \#18, for additional Land Use Fees that apply to this permit type  
  
100% of DFI  
  
100% of DFI  
  
\10. Building review associated with platting actions and/or LBAs  
  
None  
  
DPD hourly rate  
  
(( ~~10. ~~))11. Noise survey reviews  
  
None  
  
DPD hourly rate; (( ~~30-minute ~~))1-hour minimum  
  
(( ~~11. ~~))12. Parking facilities  
  
\a. Outside a building  
  
See Sec. 22.900D.060  
  
\b. Within or on a building  
  
See Sec. 22.900D.010.C  
  
/ / / / /  
  
(( ~~12. ~~))13. Renewal fees  
  
\a. Development permits and separate mechanical permits where original plans will be changed  
  
DPD hourly rate  
  
DPD hourly rate  
  
\b. Development permits other than separate mechanical where no change will be made to original plans  
  
base fee x 1.5  
  
\c. Separate mechanical where no change will be made to original plans  
  
base fee x 1  
  
(( ~~13. ~~))14. Single-family earthquake retrofit  
  
\a. Permit for work in full compliance with Project Impact Standards/Plans  
  
\b. Permit for work in partial compliance with Project Impact Standards/Plans with additional engineering design of those portions not in compliance  
  
\c. Voluntary seismic upgrades requiring full engineering/design and not per Project Impact Standards/Plans  
  
Base fee x 1  
  
Base fee x 1  
  
100% of DFI  
  
None  
  
DPD hourly rate with 1 hour minimum  
  
100% of DFI  
  
(( ~~14. ~~))15. Special inspection  
  
Base fee x 1  
  
(( ~~15. ~~))16. Swimming pools^4^  
  
\a. Unenclosed pools accessory to Group R-3 Occupancy  
  
Base fee x 4  
  
\b. Unenclosed pools accessory to occupancies other than Group R-3  
  
Base fee x 6  
  
\c. Principal use unenclosed pools  
  
Base fee x 6  
  
\d. Future construction of an unenclosed swimming pool  
  
Base fee x 1  
  
\e. Initial approval of standard plan for swimming pool accessory to Group R-3 Occupancy  
  
Base fee x 5  
  
\f. Subsequent review of application based on approved swimming pool standard plan  
  
Base fee x 1.5  
  
(( ~~16. ~~))17. Temporary structures, such as commercial coaches^5^  
  
Base fee x 2 per structure  
  
/ / / / /  
  
(( ~~17. ~~))18, Temporary use permits  
  
\a. For 4 weeks or less^6^  
  
Base fee x 1.5  
  
\b. For more than 4 weeks^6^  
  
Base fee x 2  
  
(( ~~18. ~~))19, Phased Permits  
  
\a. Value (( ~~))≤$5,000,000 in value. ~~  
  
Base fee x 1  
  
\b. Value \>$5,000,000 in value.  
  
Base fee x 2  
  
(( ~~19. ~~))20, ECA Small Project Waiver on a building permit  
  
None  
  
DPD hourly rate; 0.25 hour minimum  
  
(( ~~20. ~~))21 Street Improvement Exceptions on a building permit  
  
DPD Land Use Hourly x 2  
  
Land Use Hourly rate for each review hour spent beyond 2 hour minimum fee  
  
(( ~~21. ~~))22, Building Permit Shop Drawings  
  
None  
  
DPD hourly rate: 1.75 hour minimum  
  
(( ~~22. ~~))23, Sprinkler Shop Drawings  
  
None  
  
DPD hourly rate: 0.75 hour minimum  
  
(( ~~23. ~~))24, Sprinkler Only Permit Submittals (New and/or Add/Alt)  
  
Base fee x 0.75  
  
See Section 22.900.G - Fire Department Fees.  
  
(( ~~24. ~~))25, Code Alternate Request  
  
None  
  
DPD hourly rate, 2 hour minimum  
  
\*\*\*  
Section 9. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2012, Section 22.900D.145 of the Seattle Municipal Code, last amended by Ordinance 123610, is amended as follows:  
  
22.900D.145 Site and Geotechnical review fee (( ~~~~ . ~~~~))  
  
\*\*\*  
  
**Table D-SR - SITE AND GEOTECHNICAL REVIEW FEE**  
  
**Type of Site Review**  
  
**Minimum Fee**  
  
**Time at Which Minimum Fee is Due**  
  
**Review Time Included in Minimum Fee**  
  
**Time at Which Hourly Fees are Due**  
  
\1. Pre-application site inspection  
  
3/4 hour at the DPD hourly rate  
  
At the time of application intake  
  
3/4 hour  
  
At the time of application intake  
  
\2. Drainage (( ~~and ~~))or grading review separate from a development permit or as part of a MUP application  
  
1 hour for each type at the DPD hourly rate  
  
At the time of application intake  
  
1 hour each  
  
At the time of permit issuance  
  
\3. Review to determine Environmentally Critical Area exemption^1^  
  
1/2 hour at the DPD hourly rate  
  
At the time of application intake  
  
1/2 hour  
  
At the time of decision  
  
\4. Site located in Environmentally Critical Area unless fully exempt from ECA standards  
  
2 1/2 hours at the DPD hourly rate  
  
At the time of application intake  
  
2 1/2 hours  
  
At the time of permit issuance  
  
\5. Sites requiring either Geotechnical or Drainage review or both  
  
DPD hourly 1/4 hour minimum  
  
At the time of Permit issuance  
  
Not Applicable  
  
At the time of permit issuance  
  
\6. Post-Issuance Geotechnical Review for all permits with geotechnical special inspections  
  
1 hour at the DPD hourly rate  
  
At the time of permit issuance  
  
1 hour  
  
At the time of final inspection, issuance of Certificate of Occupancy or permit expiration.  
  
/ / / / /  
  
\*\*\*  
Section 10. Effective January 1, 2012, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2012, Section 22.900D.150 of the Seattle Municipal Code, last amended by Ordinance 123453, is amended as follows:  
  
22.900D.150 Electrical permit fees(( ~~~~ . ~~~~))  
  
\*\*\*  
  
Table D-15 — ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES\*  
 (when plans are not required)  
  
**1. Administrative Fee**  
  
1.  An administrative fee of $60 will be charged in addition to the other fees specified in this table for all items except item 9.  
  
2.  An administrative fee of $48 will be charged when work is added to an existing permit and when other information is changed.  
  
**2. Services **  
  
**Size**  
  
**Fee**  
  
\a. Services (installation, relocation and temporary installations; size based on conductor ampacity)  
  
1 - 125A  
 126 - 200A  
 201 - 300A  
 301 - 400A  
 401 - 599A  
  
½ x base fee  
 ¾ x base fee  
 1 x base fee  
 1.5 x base fee  
 2 x base fee  
  
\b. Temporary construction power for single-family residence  
  
Any  
  
½ x base fee  
  
**3. Feeders^1^**  
  
**Size**  
  
** **  
  
**120v-480v **  
  
**\>480v**  
  
** **  
  
15-25A  
  
$14  
  
((Na (see below)))¼ x base fee  
  
** **  
  
30-50A  
  
$29  
  
((Na (see below)))¼ x base fee  
  
** **  
  
((15-50A  
  
Na  
  
¼ x base fee))  
  
** **  
  
60-125A  
  
½ x base fee  
  
½ x base fee  
  
** **  
  
150A & ((above))less than 400A  
  
¾ x base fee  
  
((Na (see below)))1 x base fee  
  
** **  
  
((150-400A  
  
Na  
  
1 x base fee))  
  
** **  
  
((450 & above))400A  
  
((Na))plan review required  
  
plan review required  
  
/ / / / /  
  
**4. Connections, Devices and Branch Circuits^2^**  
  
**Fee**  
  
Connections  
  
Light outlet, switches, receptacles, fixtures^3^, residential-type fan  
  
$1.75 each  
  
Track lighting or multi-outlet assembly  
  
$1.75 for every 2 feet of track  
  
1.  Devices and Branch Circuits  
  
Dimmer (commercial 2,000 watt or over)  
  
$19 each  
  
Non-electric furnance4  
  
$14 each  
  
Dedicated appliances & utilization circuits (cord and plug or direct wired)  
  
(15-25A)  
  
$14 each  
  
(30-50A)  
  
$29 each  
  
Range  
  
$29 each  
  
Water heater (220 volt)  
  
$29 each  
  
Floodlight5  
  
$6.40 each  
  
Sign  
  
$36 each  
  
**5. Transformer Installations ^6^**  
  
**Fee**  
  
Up to 300 VA  
  
$6.40  
  
300 VA to 6 KVA  
  
$14  
  
7 KVA to 15 KVA  
  
$43  
  
16 KVA to 45 KVA  
  
½ x base fee  
  
46 KVA to 112.5 KVA  
  
¾ x base fee  
  
\> 113 KVA  
  
1 x base fee  
  
**6. Motor Installations**  
  
**Fee**  
  
Up to 1/3 HP  
  
$6.40  
  
1/3 HP to 3/4 HP  
  
$14  
  
1 HP to 3 HP  
  
$21  
  
4 HP to 5 HP  
  
$27  
  
6 HP to 20 HP  
  
¼ x base fee  
  
21 HP to 50 HP  
  
½ x base fee  
  
\> 51 HP  
  
¾ x base fee  
  
/ / / / /  
  
**7. Electric Furnaces and Heaters**  
  
**Fee**  
  
Up to 2 KW  
  
$6.40  
  
2 KW to 5 KW  
  
$14  
  
6 KW to 15 KW  
  
$18  
  
16 KW to 30 KW  
  
¼ x base fee  
  
31 KW to 100 KW  
  
½ x base fee  
  
\> 101 KW  
  
¾ x base fee  
  
**8. Low-voltage and Communications Systems**  
  
**Fee**  
  
\a. Low-voltage systems^7^—sound systems, security systems, fire alarms, nurse call, industrial controls and similar  
  
Requires separate permit for each system  
  
Control unit  
  
$11 each  
  
Device (actuating, horn, alarm, etc.)  
  
$1.75 each  
  
Control systems (\>100 volts) shall be based on the feeder schedule  
  
\b. Communications systems8—voice cable, data cable, coaxial cable, fiber optics and similar. The maximum fee is $420.  
  
Control unit  
  
$11 each  
  
Outlet  
  
$1.75 each  
  
**9. Special Events**  
  
\a. Inspections occurring during normal business hours—Hourly at the DPD hourly rate; minimum ½ hour.  
 b. Inspections occurring outside normal business hours— Hourly at the DPD hourly rate; minimum 1½ hour.  
  
**10. Inspections for which no other fee is listed, including but not limited to Conditional Work and “Get Started” permits**  
  
Each  
  
Hourly at the DPD hourly rate; minimum ½ hour  
  
**11. Renewal Energy Systems (photovoltaic, wind power generation, etc.)**  
  
0 KW to 6 KW  
  
¾ x base fee  
  
7 KW to 26 KW  
  
1 x base fee  
  
Over 26 KW  
  
Plan review required  
  
((\*See Electrical Code for permit exceptions))  
  
**12. Size overcurrent protection for Electric Vehicle (EV) charging stations**  
  
**Select fee for each charger to be installed.**  
  
**Charging Station **  
**Level 2A** (120-240 V 1 PHASE)   
**Level 2B** (120-208 V 3 PHASE)  
  
**Charging Station**  
 Level 3 (277-480 V 3 PHASE)****  
  
15 TO 25 AMP CHG STATION  
  
$14  
  
¼ x base fee  
  
30 TO 50 AMP CHG STATION  
  
$29  
  
¼ x base fee  
  
60 TO 125 AMP CHG STATION  
  
½ x base fee  
  
½ x base fee  
  
150 TO 225 AMP CHG STATION  
  
¾ x base fee  
  
1 x base fee  
  
250 TO 400 AMP CHG STATION  
  
Requires plan review.  
  
Requires plan review.  
  
OVER 450 AMP CHG STATION  
  
Requires plan review.  
  
Requires plan review.  
  
\*See Electrical Code for permit exceptions  
  
\*\*\*  
Section 11. Effective January 1, 2012, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2012, Section 22.900D.160 of the Seattle Municipal Code, last amended by Ordinance 123453, is amended as follows:  
  
22.900D.160 Sign, awning and canopy permit fees(( ~~~~ . ~~~~))  
  
\*\*\*  
  
Section 12. Effective January 1, 2012, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2012, Section 22.900E.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code, last amended by Ordinance 123453, is amended as follows:  
  
22.900E.050 Boiler, refrigeration and gas piping licenses and examinations(( ~~~~ . ~~~~))  
  
Fees for boiler, refrigeration and gas piping examination and annual license fees, payable in advance, shall be charged as set in Table E-4.  
  
**Table E-4 - FEES FOR BOILER, REFRIGERATION, AND GAS PIPING LICENSES AND EXAMINATIONS**  
  
**License fees:^1^**  
  
Refrigeration Contractor  
  
Class A  
$189  
  
Class B  
$189  
  
Class C  
$302  
  
(( ~~Air-conditioning contractor ~~  
~~$189 ~~))  
  
(( ~~Refrigeration service shop ~~  
~~$85 ~~))  
  
Journeyman refrigeration mechanic  
$85  
  
(( ~~Refrigeration service shop mechanic ~~  
~~$85 ~~))  
  
(( ~~Industrial refrigeration engineer ~~  
~~$85 ~~))  
  
Refrigeration operating engineer  
$85  
  
Steam engineers and boiler firemen (all grades)  
$85  
  
Boiler supervisor, all grades  
$94  
  
Gas piping mechanic  
$85  
  
**Examination fees** - all licenses  
$38  
  
Note to Table E-4:1. When a license is issued that will expire in less than six months from the date of issuance, the fee is 1/2 the annual fee.  
  
Section 13. Effective January 1, 2012, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2012, Section 22.900F of the Seattle Municipal Code, last amended by Ordinance 123453, is amended as follows:  
  
22.900F.060 Housing and Building Maintenance Code Variance  
  
The fee to conduct research, inspections and review of associated variance decisions requested pursuant to Section 22.206.217 of the Housing and Building Maintenance Code is two times the DPD base fee.  
  
Section 14. Effective January 1, 2012, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2012, Section 22.900G.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code, last amended by Ordinance 120997, is amended as follows:  
  
22.900G.020 Fees for review by the Seattle Department of Transportation(( ~~~~ and the Seattle Public Utility. ~~~~))  
  
The fees shown in Table G-1 shall be collected by the Department for transfer to the Seattle Department of Transportation (SDOT)(( ~~~~ or the Seattle Public Utility ~~~~)).  
  
**Table G-1 - SEATTLE Department** **OF TRANSPORTATION ****  
**(( ~~and ~~**~~  
**SEATTLE PUBLIC UTILITY Fees **~~**))****  
  
**Work for Which Fee is Charged**  
  
**Amount of Fee**  
  
**(( ~~Department ~~)) **  
  
(( ~~1. ~~  
  
~~Building grade sheet ~~  
  
~~$430 for 1-3 lots plus $85 per lot over 3 ~~  
  
~~SPU ~~))  
  
(( ~~2 ~~.))1.  
  
School Use and School Development Advisory Committee reviews  
  
$110 per hour  
  
(( ~~SDOT ~~))  
  
(( ~~3 ~~.))2.  
  
Major institution master plans  
  
$110 per hour  
  
(( ~~SDOT ~~))  
  
(( ~~4. ~~  
  
~~Processing of right-of-way dedications ~~  
  
~~$110 per hour ~~  
  
~~SPU ~~))  
  
(( ~~5 ~~.))3.  
  
Shoring and excavation review^1^  
  
$110 per hour  
  
(( ~~SDOT ~~))  
  
Note to Table G-1:  
\1. A separate street use permit must be obtained from SDOT under Title 15 if excavation or shoring will occur in the public right-of-way. This fee is collected for SDOT for shoring projects adjacent to the public right-of-way; it is for the review of utility conflicts, bonding, and temporary use of the right-of-way, and for a deposit to pay for inspections during construction.  
  
Section 15. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.  
  
Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
  
\_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council  
  
Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
Michael McGinn, Mayor  
  
Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
Monica Martinez Simmons, City Clerk  
  
(Seal)  
  
  
