* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)117360**   
**Ordinance Number: 123785**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to City employment commonly referred to as the Fourth Quarter 2011 Employment Ordinance; establishing new titles and/or salaries; designating positions as exempt from Civil Service status; and ratifying and confirming prior acts; all by a 2/3 vote of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 12, 2011   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Rasmussen)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 19, 2011   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 19, 2011   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 28, 2011   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN   
**Committee Recommendation:** Pass   
**Date of Committee Recommendation:** December 6, 2011   
**Committee Vote:** 2 (Godden, O'Brien) - 0   
  
*(No indexing available for this document)*  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/117360.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)117360  
  
**Electronic Copy: ** [PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123785](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123785.pdf)  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to City employment commonly referred to  
    as the Fourth Quarter 2011 Employment Ordinance; establishing  
    new titles and/or salaries; designating positions as exempt  
    from Civil Service status; and ratifying and confirming prior  
    acts; all by a 2/3 vote of the City Council.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Establishing New Titles and/or Salaries .  
    As recommended by the  
  
    Personnel Director, the following titles and/or salary rates  
    are established as displayed  
  
    below, effective as of the dates shown and pay is authorized  
    back to the effective dates:  
  
Department:  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Title:  
  
Water Quality Engineer, Senior  
  
New Salary Range:  
  
$41.40 - $42.99 - $44.61 - $46.42 - $48.20  
  
Old Salary Range:  
  
$39.51 - $40.98 - $42.54 - $44.14 - $45.75  
  
Report:  
  
11-11885  
  
Effective Date:  
  
January 5, 2011  
  
Department:  
  
Parks and Recreation  
  
Title:  
  
Parks Maintenance Crew Chief  
  
New Salary Range:  
  
$31.71 - $32.88 - $34.28  
  
Old Salary Range:  
  
$28.75 - $29.85 - $31.12  
  
Report:  
  
11-11946  
  
Effective Date:  
  
July 20, 2011  
  
Section 2. Designating Five Positions as Exempt from Civil Service Status . As  
recommended by the Personnel Director in the Classification Determinations specified, these  
  
positions are designated as exempt from Civil Service as noted below, pursuant to SMC  
  
4.13.010(1):  
  
-- 1 position (\#00019005) in the Department of Information Technology;  
  
Strategic Advisor 2 designated to IT Professional A, Exempt (Report \#11-11926).  
  
-- 2 positions (\#00022999 & \#10003357) in the Seattle Police Department; IT Professional B designated to IT Professional A, Exempt (Report \#11-11947).  
  
-- 1 position (\#10004116) in the Seattle City Light Department; Electrical Power  
  
Systems Engineer, Principal designated to Executive 2 (Report \#11-12063).  
  
-- 1 position (\#00025017) in the Department of Finance and Administrative Services; Strategic Advisor 1, designated to Strategic Advisor 2, Exempt (Report \#11-12108).  
  
Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after its passage  
  
and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.  
  
Passed by a 2/3 vote of all the members of the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
  
\_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council  
  
Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
Michael McGinn, Mayor  
  
Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
Monica Martinez Simmons, City Clerk  
  
(Seal)  
  
  
