* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114499**   
**Ordinance Number: 121133**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to housing for low-income households, adopting the 2003-2004 Administrative and Financial Plan for 2002 Housing Levy Programs; amending the Affordable Housing Financing Plan adopted by Ordinance 120823; modifying certain policies for use of funds from the 1986 Housing Levy and 1995 Housing Levy; amending the City's Consolidated Plan; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.  
  
**Status:** Passed As Amended   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 28, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Conlin)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 9, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 8, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 10, 2003   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services and Community Development   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER   
  
**Index Terms:** PLANNING, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, ACCOUNTING, FINANCE  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 120823, 121083  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to housing for low-income households, adopting  
    the 2003-2004 Administrative and Financial Plan for 2002 Housing Levy  
    Programs; amending the Affordable Housing Financing Plan adopted by  
    Ordinance 120823; modifying certain policies for use of funds from the  
    1986 Housing Levy and 1995 Housing Levy; amending the City's  
    Consolidated Plan; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.  
  
    WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 120823 the voters of The City of  
    Seattle approved the levy of property taxes for the purpose of  
    financing and supporting housing for low-income households, and  
    adopted an Affordable Housing Financing Plan;  and  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 120823 provides for periodic adoption by the City  
    Council of an Administrative and Financial Plan for programs funded by  
    the 2002 Housing Levy ("Levy Programs");  and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Office of Housing, in cooperation with the Human Services  
    Department and with advice from the Oversight Committee for the 1995  
    Housing Levy, has developed the Administrative and Financial Plan for  
    2003-2004 for the 2002 Levy Programs; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City's Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community  
    Development, as amended by Ordinance 121083 [CB 114468] ("Consolidated  
    Plan"), requires certain revisions for the purpose of implementing  
    certain Levy Programs;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The City Council hereby adopts the 2002 Seattle Housing  
    Levy Administrative and Financial Plan for Program Years 2003-2004  
    attached to this Ordinance as Exhibit A.  The adoption of this Plan  
    and the terms of this ordinance are intended to provide policy  
    direction for the implementation of Levy Programs, and not to confer  
    any legal rights or entitlements on any persons, groups or entities.  
  
    Section 2.  The Affordable Housing Financing Plan ("AHFP") for the  
    2002 Housing Levy adopted by Ordinance 120823 is hereby amended as  
    follows:  
  
    A.  A Bridge Loan Program, as described in Exhibit A, is added to the  
    programs described in the AHFP.  
  
    B.  A Rental Stabilization Program, as described in Exhibit A, is  
    added as part of the Rental Assistance Program described in the AHFP.  
  
    C.  The definition of "first-time homebuyer" for purposes of the AHFP  
    shall be as set forth in Exhibit A.  
  
    D.  The fourth paragraph of Section 5 of the AHFP, "Homeownership  
    Assistance Program," is amended as follows:  
  
    * Downpayment assistance and interest rate writedowns shall be  
    structured with repayment obligations with repayments used for  
    subsequent loans to low-income homebuyers. Downpayment assistance  
    offered through this program shall be provided through the  
    mechanism of a one or more  revolving loan funds, which  
    may be held by the City and administered by the Office of  
    Housing, or may be held by one or more non-profit agencies that  
    lend and re-lend funds under contract with the City.  In addition,  
    assistance offered through this program shall include protections such  
    as anti-windfall profit protection measures, including shared  
    appreciation requirements; right-of-first refusal requirements;   
    and or other measures necessary to attempt to ensure  
    that the units continue to be affordable for low-income households for  
    the long term.  
  
    Section 3.  To the extent expressly provided in Exhibit A, the  
    policies set forth in Exhibit A shall apply to the use of funds  
    derived from the City's 1995 Housing Levy and 1986 Housing Levy,  
    including without limitation earnings and loan repayments, superseding  
    to the extent of any inconsistency the policies set forth in any  
    Administrative and Financial Plan for programs funded by either of  
    those prior housing levies, including without limitation the plan  
    approved by Ordinance 120123.  The foregoing notwithstanding, any  
    award or commitment for a loan of funds derived from the 1995 or 1986  
    Housing Levy issued prior to the effective date of this ordinance  
    shall continue to be governed by the policies in the Administrative  
    and Financial Plan that applied to that award or commitment, except as  
    may be otherwise required by law, and shall not be governed by the  
    policies in Exhibit A hereto.  
  
    Section 4.  The amendments to the Consolidated Plan shown in Exhibit B  
    are hereby adopted.  
  
    Section 5.  This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed  
    by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day  
    of __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    Attachments:  
  
    Exhibit A: 2002 Housing Levy Administrative and Financial Plan,  
    Program Years 2003-2004  
      Attachment A:  Economically Distressed Communities  
    Exhibit B:  Amendments to Consolidated Plan  
  
    4-23-03  
    version 6  
    t  
  
    EXHIBIT A  
  
    CITY OF SEATTLE 2002 HOUSING LEVY ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL PLAN  
    (including policies for 1986, and 1995 Housing Levies)  
  
    Program Years:  2003, 2004  
  
    Greg Nickels, Mayor  
    Prepared by:  
    Seattle Office of Housing  
    Katie Hong, Director  
  
    April 23, 2003  
    Adopted by City Council Ordinance ________ on __________ 2003  
  
    INTRODUCTION  
  
    The 2002 Seattle Housing Levy will provide up to $86 million over a 7 year  
    period to provide, produce, and/or preserve affordable housing in Seattle and to  
    assist low-income tenants in Seattle.  Levy programs include:  
    * Rental Preservation and Production  
    * Homeownership  
    * Neighborhood Housing Opportunity Program  
    * Rental Assistance  
    * Operating and Maintenance  
  
    The 2002 Housing Levy, approved by Seattle voters in September, 2002, includes  
    property tax levies authorized for seven years, from 2003 through 2009.  The  
    Office of Housing (OH) will administer all 2002 Seattle Housing Levy programs  
    with the exception of the Rental Assistance program, which will be administered  
    by the Human Services Department.  
  
    Ordinance 120823, passed by City Council on June 10, 2002, adopted an Affordable  
    Housing Financing Plan ("AHFP"), placed the levy proposition on the September  
    ballot and directed the Office of Housing (OH) to prepare an Administrative and  
    Financial (A and F) Plan covering all Levy programs beginning in 2003.  The Plan  
    must be approved by City Council and updated every two years.  The Plan was  
    developed by OH with the assistance of  working groups that included  nonprofit  
    group representatives (including Seattle Housing Authority) and other community  
    members.  It was reviewed, revised and approved by the 1995 Housing Levy  
    Oversight Committee.  
    Ordinance 120823 requires A and F Plans to include:  
  
    * Criteria for evaluating and selecting projects;  
    * Guidelines for loans or grants;  
    * Requirements for project borrowers;  
    * Progress and performance reports on ongoing projects and for each Levy program  
    (this section to be included in future plans);  
    * Program reviews to ensure that levy funds are used for their stated purposes;  
    and  
    * Financial budgets for each levy program.  
    * The A & F Plan may include such other information as the Mayor or Housing  
    Director may deem appropriate or the City Council may request.  
  
    This information is incorporated into the program area chapters.  Also included  
    in the A and F Plan is program administration information and a program funding  
    plan.  
  
    The contents of this Plan are not intended to confer any legal rights on actual  
    or potential project borrowers, applicants, or other persons.  The terms of this  
    Plan are subject to revision by ordinance and to the effect of applicable laws,  
    regulations and ordinance.  
  
    2002 Housing Levy  
    A & F PLAN  
    2003-2004  
  
    PROGRAM FUNDING PLAN  
  
    Financial budgets for each Levy program are shown in Table 1 on the next page.  
    Allocations may not be fully expended in the years shown.  To the extent that  
    funding allocated to any program is used for bridge loans, as described below,  
    the amounts shown represent the allocation of bridge loan repayments, when  
    received.  
  
    Bridge Loans:  
    The Office of Housing may use 1986, 1995, and/or 2002 Levy funds alone or  
    together with other funds to make bridge loans to assist in development of low-  
    income housing (for rental or owner occupancy).  Bridge loans are intended to  
    provide funding to permit housing projects to proceed in advance of the  
    availability of permanent project funding.  Bridge loan funding is available for  
    such project development activity as acquisition and/or construction.  
  
    Bridge loans may be made from any program or  subfund, and are not subject to  
    the conditions or policies for any of the programs, except those specifically  
    applicable to bridge loans.  Bridge loans may be made when, in the judgement of  
    the OH Director, there is a high likelihood of repayment so funds will be  
    available to fulfill the original purpose of the funds.  More on bridge loans is  
    included in the Loan Conditions section of the Rental Preservation and  
    Production Program; these guidelines will be used for all levy-funded bridge  
    loans.  
  
    Levy Investment Earnings:  
  
    From the levy Ordinance:  "The first $2 million in investment earnings shall be  
    allocated to the Levy Operating and Maintenance Program, all remaining  
    investment earnings shall be allocated to each Levy program in the same  
    proportions as the original proportions shown in Chart 1, unless otherwise  
    modified by the City Council by ordinance, with the exception of the Operating  
    and Maintenance Program, whose investment earnings on the Operating and  
    Maintenance Program balances shall be allocated to the Operating and Maintenance  
    Program for administration of that program."  After the first $2 million in  
    investment earnings is allocated to the Levy Operating and Maintenance Program,  
    5% of the investment earnings added to the Levy Programs (not including the O  
    and M Program), will be used by the Office of Housing for administration---this  
    funding for administration is in addition to amounts shown in the Program  
    Administration section, and shall not exceed $35,000 per year without Council  
    approval.  
  
    Levy interest earnings and Loan Repayments from 1986 or 1995 Levy:  
    Earnings and loan repayments from 1986 or 1995 Housing Levy capital programs or  
    projects will be used according to the following program policies:  
    * Funds derived from that portion of the 1995 Levy Rental Housing Production  
    Program eligible for households at 50-65% of median income, will be used  
    consistent with 2002 Levy Neighborhood Housing Opportunity Program policies;  
    * All other funds derived from the 1995 Levy Rental Housing Production Program  
    will be used consistent with the 2002 Levy's Rental Preservation and Production  
    Program policies, provided that all units supported with such funds must serve  
    very low-income households;  
    * Funds derived from the 1986 Levy Special Needs, Downtown Preservation, and  
    Small Family programs, will be used consistently with the 2002 Levy's Rental  
    Preservation and Production Program policies.  
  
    Table 1:  2002 Housing Levy Program Funding Plan  
  
    FUNDS AVAILABLE           2003         2004         2005          2006          2007         2008         2009          TOTAL  
  
    Total $86,000,000       $12,285,714    $12,285,714  $12,285,714   $12,285,714   $12,285,714   $12,285,714 $12,285,714   $86,000,000  
  
    PROGRAM                    2003         2004         2005          2006          2007          2008         2009          TOTALS  
  
    Rental          Capital    $8,015,714   $8,015,714    $8,015,714   $8,015,714    $8,015,714   $8,015,715    $8,015,715    $56,110,000  
    Preservation  
    & Production  
                    Admin        $461,372     $461,372      $461,372     $461,372      $461,372    $461,372       $461,372     $3,229,604  
  
    Homeownership   Capital    $1,115,858   $7,811,000    $1,115,857   $1,115,857    $1,115,857  $1,115,857     $1,115,857     $1,115,857  
                    Admin         $64,227      $64,227       $64,227      $64,227       $64,227     $64,227        $64,227       $449,589  
  
    Neighborhood    Capital    $1,030,572   $7,214,000,   $1,030,571   $1,030,571    $1,030,571  $1,030,571     $1,030,572     $1,030,572  
    Housing  
    Opportunity  
    Program  
                    Admin         $59,318      $59,318       $59,318      $59,318       $59,318     $59,318        $59,319       $415,227  
  
    Rental Assistance Capital    $406,000     $406,000      $406,000     $406,000      $406,000    $406,000       $406,000     $2,842,000  
                      Admin       $23,369      $23,369       $23,369      $23,368       $23,368     $23,368        $23,369       $163,580  
  
    O & M Capital              $1,109,286   $7,765,000    $1,109,286   $1,109,286    $1,109,286  $1,109,285     $1,109,285     $1,109,286  
  
    TOTAL                     $12,285,718  $86,000,000   $12,285,714  $12,285,714   $12,285,714 $12,285,712    $12,285,713     $12,285,715  
  
    2002 Housing Levy A & F PLAN 2003-2004  
    REPORTING  
  
    The Office of Housing will provide the following reports to the Mayor and City  
    Council.  Reports will be reviewed in draft by the Housing Levy Oversight  
    Committee.  
  
    A. Annual Report  
    The Annual Report will be produced and provided to the Mayor and City Council no  
    later than February 28 of each year, covering activity for the previous year.  
    The Annual Report will include, but not be limited to, the following:  
  
    * Accomplishments / Production for each Levy Program:  
    * Rental Preservation and Production---units funded and funding reserved for  
      those units;  
    * Homeownership---number of loans approved, value of loans approved, number of  
      loans in the City's portfolio, value of all loans in the City's portfolio,  
      delinquency rates for loans in the portfolio, levels of activity of  
      participating agencies and/or financial institutions, and number of loans sold  
      to new buyers;  
    * Neighborhood Housing Opportunity Program---units funded and funding reserved  
      to those units;  
    * Rental Assistance---number of households provided housing assistance and  
      success at stabilizing households;  
    * Operating and Maintenance ---units funded and their funding level, and the  
      extent of Section 8 voucher activity linked to Levy funded projects.  
    * Affordability levels served, actual compared to policy;  
    * Leverage achieved for each Levy Program;  
    * Brief status of units produced under the 1986 and 1995 Housing levies;  
    * Bridge lending activity;  
    * Recommended policy changes needed to improve program performance/production;  
    * Any additional information that the Housing Levy Oversight Committee believes  
      should be included.  
  
    B. Mid-year Report  
    The Mid-year Report will be produced and provided to the Mayor and City Council  
    no later than August 31 of each year.  It is intended to focus on issues that  
    relate to the City's budget.  
  
    2002 Housing Levy A & F PLAN 2003-2004  
    RENTAL PRESERVATION & PRODUCTION  
  
                             Total:  2003-2009       2003-2004  
    Program Funding:         $56,100,000             $16,031,429  
    Unit Goal:               1,522 Units             435 Units  
  
    A.  PROGRAM OBJECTIVES  
  
    In funding projects under the rental production program, the City shall  
    encourage the acquisition and development of innovative housing types, such as  
    live/work housing, cottage housing, carriage housing, co-housing, land trusts,  
    detached accessory dwelling units and other housing types that provide  
    affordable housing.  
  
    Levy funds will be focused on the following priority areas in 2003-2004.  These  
    priorities will be included in Notice Of Funding Availability (NOFA) documents,  
    and are not listed in priority order:  
  
    * Family Housing  
      Projects with 50% or more of the units containing two or more bedrooms will be  
      a priority.  
  
    * Neighborhood Plans  
      Projects that implement strategies identified in City-accepted Neighborhood  
      Plans will be a priority.  NOFA documents will provide more specific guidance  
      regarding this important area of focus  
  
    * Senior Housing  
      Projects in areas with demonstrated shortfall in supply of low-income senior  
      housing will be a priority.  
  
    * Housing for people who are homeless and/or disabled  
      Recommendations from the Seattle-King County 1999-2000 Homelessness Response  
      report, the United Way Homeless Initiative, and priorities established in the  
      Seattle-King County Continuum of Care applications will be used to establish  
      Office of Housing funding priorities, with specific funding emphasis to be  
      included in NOFA documents..  Housing for persons participating in the Gates  
      Foundation Sound Families Initiative, welfare to work or employment programs  
      for homeless will also receive priority.  
  
    * Section 8 Preservation and Expiring Use Projects  
      Preserving units with expiring project-based federal operating subsidy,  
      expiring tax credit affordability restrictions and other developments with  
      expiring affordability restrictions will be a priority during 2003-2004;  
      specific funding emphasis guidelines will be included in future NOFA  
      documents.  
  
    * Housing Units for Households at 30% of median income or lower  
      Developments including a substantial proportion of units serving households  
      with incomes of 30% or less of the median income will receive priority in  
      order to achieve the Levy Affordability Policy described below.  Projects that  
      have secured significant philanthropic or other non-city resource to provide  
      necessary support services will receive high priority.  
  
    * Transit Oriented Development  
      Projects located within 1/2 mile of a light rail station or major transit  
      center which incorporate pedestrian uses and transit access into their  
      designwill be a priority.  
  
    The Council shall review the program priorities for funding using 2000 census  
    data and other relevant data by January 2004 and make modifications to the  
    program priorities based on such data.  
  
    B. PROGRAM POLICIES  
  
    1.  USE OF FUNDS  
  
    Program funds can be used as long-term loans, bridge loans, reserves for  
    additional loans to projects under development and, under certain circumstances,  
    supplemental funding for projects previously funded  by the City.  
  
    Program funds can be used to pay for acquisition and/or rehabilitation costs  
    associated with preserving existing vacant or occupied buildings, for new  
    construction projects, and for permanent or "take-out" financing, including  
    refinancing of existing loans.  
  
    Eligible acquisition costs include reasonable costs associated with building or  
    land purchase, such as:  
  
    * Purchase price  
    * Option costs  
    * Financing fees  
    * Appraisal costs  
    * Closing costs  
    * Interest  
    * Inspection fees  
    * Title insurance  
    * Professional fees  
  
    Eligible rehabilitation and new construction costs include but are not limited  
    to:  
  
    * Architectural/engineering fees  
    * Construction costs  
    * Relocation costs  
    * Operating losses during project rent-up  
    * Hazardous materials abatement  
  
    Eligible permanent or "take out" financing costs include all costs related to  
    the acquisition, development and construction of the units.  
  
    Reasonable development fees will also be an eligible use of Levy funds.  
    Development fees must be consistent with OH's Development Fee Policy, as now in  
    effect and as it may be amended by the Director from time to time, and will be  
    considered as part of the development budget for a proposed project. OH will  
    review the proposed development fee for nonprofit agencies that receive other  
    City funds for their housing development services to insure that Levy and other  
    City funds are not being used for the same purpose.  
  
    For projects selected for funding, up-front development costs incurred prior to  
    a project's selection will be eligible for Levy reimbursement. Examples of up-  
    front costs include earnest money agreements, legal costs, and preliminary  
    architectural or engineering costs. Impact Capital (IC) is a potential source of  
    up-front development costs for nonprofit agencies. Levy funds can be used to  
    repay Impact Capital loans.  
  
    2. ELIGIBLE PROJECTS  
  
    Levy program funding may be used as described below.  Eligible projects may  
    include entire buildings, individual units(s) within a building, portions of a  
    building, or individual units(s) or portions of several different buildings,  
    consistent with the policies described below.  
  
    Levy funds can be used for projects that combine residential and other uses,  
    and/or that combine subsidized housing with market-rate units.  The borrower  
    must demonstrate that City funding is attributable to the Levy-eligible housing  
    and that costs of other parts of the project are paid from funds eligible for  
    that purpose.  
  
    Residential space includes common areas and support space, to the extent  
    attributable to the housing and not to other uses.  Examples include:  
  
    * Common areas for resident use such as television or reading rooms;  
    * Areas for cooking, eating, bathing;  
    * Corridors, stairwells, storage areas;  
    * Management office space; and  
    * Building lobby area.  
  
    For projects serving special needs populations, other accessory space (such as  
    office space serving the housing or space for provision of on-site social  
    services to residents) that is necessary for the viability of the project may be  
    considered part of the Levy-eligible housing.  
  
    Levy funds may be allocated to non-residential areas of mixed-use buildings only  
    for work directly benefiting the residential units; e.g., rehabilitation work  
    that is part of overall exterior building improvements (masonry repairs) or  
    rehabilitation work necessary to insure the structural integrity of the  
    building.  Costs associated with commercial tenant improvements or improvements  
    to market-rate units are not eligible for Levy funding.  
  
    OH acknowledges that mixed-use buildings will require financing for non-housing  
    portions of a project.  While Levy funds may not be used for costs allocable to  
    non-housing portions, nor for costs allocable to housing for ineligible tenants,  
    OH will help applicants identify other project funding or innovative fund  
    sources to cover non-housing project costs.  
  
    Where it is impractical to segregate construction or rehabilitation costs  
    between Levy funded units and other portions of a mixed-use or mixed-income  
    project, the OH Director may permit such costs to be prorated between Levy  
    funding and other funding sources based on any reasonable formula.  In order to  
    facilitate development of the Levy-eligible units, OH may allow Levy funds to be  
    used for the full amount of a cost item (such as land or building purchase) that  
    is partially attributable to non-residential or market-rate space, if there is  
    adequate assurance that sufficient funding from appropriate sources will be  
    provided prior to project completion to pay for a share of total project costs  
    equal to the full amount allocable to such space and that final cost  
    certification will confirm the allocation of costs of such space to such  
    sources.  
  
    3. ELIGIBLE TENANTS  
  
    Tenant households must generally have incomes at or below the applicable limit  
    for the unit -- 30%, 50% or 60% of area median income, adjusted for household  
    size, to be eligible to live in a unit assisted through the Rental Preservation  
    & Production Program.  Detailed rent requirements are outlined in Section 8,  
    Occupancy and Rent Requirements, and the requirements for individual projects  
    will be included in loan documents prior to fund disbursement.  
  
    In some projects, some or all units may be reserved for households in which one  
    or more members has a disability or special need, and/or reserved for homeless  
    persons.  
  
    Where appropriate borrowers are expected to contract with service providers or  
    provide appropriate support services.  Projects providing transitional housing  
    will be required to link support services directly to households in those units,  
    but on-site services will not necessarily be required.  
  
    4. ELIGIBLE BORROWERS  
  
    Eligible borrowers of housing produced through the Levy are:  
  
    * Private nonprofit agencies;  
    * Public Development Authorities;  
    * Seattle Housing Authority; (Except that Levy funds for housing units developed  
      as part of SHA HOPE VI redevelopments are not eligible unless the City Council  
      approves such use through a Memorandum of Agreement or other agreement with  
      SHA.)  
    * Private for-profit owners/developers.  
  
    Private nonprofit agencies will be required to submit articles of incorporation  
    and an IRS letter as proof of nonprofit status.  Eligible nonprofits must have a  
    charitable purpose which may or may not include the provision of housing.  The  
    City's preference is to provide funding to nonprofit borrowers, including public  
    agencies that have established housing as a primary purpose and track record of  
    the organization.  Through the project selection process, priority will be given  
    to nonprofit and public agencies that have demonstrated ability to develop  
    and/or manage low-income housing, and to limited partnerships or other  
    organizations through which such nonprofit and public agencies obtain tax  
    credits to help finance a project.  
  
    Any partnership or organization organized by a nonprofit or public corporation  
    in order to obtain tax credits may be treated by the Director as a nonprofit  
    corporation for purposes of the policies in this Plan. The Director also may  
    consider as nonprofit corporation any corporation, limited liability company,  
    general partnership, joint venture, or limited partnership if all shareholders,  
    members, partners, and any other equity owners of such entity are nonprofit  
    corporations or public entities.  
  
    Borrowers ordinarily must demonstrate previous experience in the development,  
    management, and ownership of housing projects similar to the project being  
    proposed. If the nonprofit borrower does not have previous experience in one or  
    more of those areas, the borrower will be expected to propose an appropriate  
    relationship with another entity in order to demonstrate required experience. OH  
    will evaluate the experience of a borrower's management/development team, staff,  
    Board of Directors, and other project and program experience to determine there  
    is sufficient capacity to develop, own and operate housing on a long-term basis.  
  
    5. MAXIMUM CITY PERCENTAGE OF PROJECT FINANCING  
  
    The City's maximum percentage of project financing includes all OH and other  
    City agency administered or allocated capital funds which may be combined to  
    provide permanent gap financing for the housing portion of a project, including  
    funds from any Housing Levy, the Community Development Block Grant Program, HOME  
    Program, Housing Bonus Program, Transfer of Development Rights Program, any  
    special mitigation funds, program income, Office of Economic Development (OED)  
    Equity funds, OED Community Development Corporation and technical assistance  
    funds if used as capital for development or other long-term city capital gap-  
    financing subsidy. The City's maximum percentage of project financing also  
    includes funding awarded from King County 2060 allocation processes.   Bridge or  
    Section 108 loans are not included in computing the percentage.  For purposes of  
    this section, "project" is defined as those units in the building(s) that are  
    City funded and rent-regulated, and the common areas, elements or portions  
    allocable to those units.  
  
    Leveraging other non-City resources is required for most projects.  The  
    established maximum percentage of project financing figures will be reviewed in  
    light of actual project experience when future Plans are prepared and will be  
    revised if necessary.  
  
    In general, the maximum per project amount that the City will provide is 40% of  
    total development costs of the housing portion of a project.  Total development  
    costs are all components of typical development budgets, including acquisition  
    (land and/or building), construction costs, and soft costs.  
  
    Waivers may be granted by the OH Director on a project-by-project basis to  
    permit City funding in excess of the percentage stated in the previous  
    paragraph.  The OH Director may approve an increase in City subsidy of an  
    additional 10%, up to a total of 50% of a project's total development costs for  
    projects that clearly demonstrate the need for a policy waiver.  
  
    Waivers may be considered on a case by case basis for projects meeting one or  
    more of the following criteria:  
  
    (a) Projects that are located in an area with little or no subsidized, low-  
        income housing, or in an area identified in the City's comprehensive plan  
        or other adopted policies as one in which low-income subsidized housing  
        should be encouraged.  
  
    (b) Projects that provide special amenities and/or unique design features for  
        the proposed tenant population.  This may include projects that contain  
        larger units for families; or projects that require reconfiguration of  
        units to meet the needs of the proposed population; or special design  
        features resulting from the participation of potential tenants and/or  
        community members in project development.  
  
    (c) Projects where other public funders have made their maximum award or for  
        which maximum leveraging of other public fund sources is not possible due  
        to timing considerations, i.e. sources not available at time project  
        should proceed.  OH may ask borrowers to apply for other fund sources  
        later, if appropriate  
  
    OH will use costs of previously funded, comparable projects as a guide in  
    determining if a waiver is justified; however, waiver decisions will be made on  
    a case by case basis based on specifics of the particular project or situation.  
    Additional waivers permitting higher City subsidy amounts may be granted if the  
    OH Director finds that the leveraging potential of other fund sources is very  
    limited and higher City subsidy is warranted.  In this limited circumstance,  
    funding in excess of 50% of total development costs of the City-funded units is  
    permissible, as long as the project also fits within an area of program focus  
    outlined in section A above and is a relatively low number of units or  
    relatively low total city funding amount.  
  
    6.  LOCATION  
  
    Projects may be funded in all neighborhoods, subject to any applicable  
    geographic restrictions in the City's Consolidated Plan.  
  
    7. SITING  
  
    The following criteria will be considered during the project selection process  
    to determine if the location of a proposed project promotes a quality  
    environment for the population to be served and will apply equally to  
    transitional and permanent housing projects:  
  
    (a) proximity to transit, goods and services necessary for the specific  
        population;  
  
    (b) relationship and compatibility of the project with other uses in the area;  
  
    (c) safety and security of the location for the proposed population;  
  
    (d) special amenities (e.g., availability of safe and secure outdoor play space  
        for children in family housing projects).  
  
    An important goal will be to disperse low-income subsidized housing units  
    whenever possible.  
  
    8. NOTIFICATION  
  
    Borrowers of projects seeking funds from this program must engage in a community  
    notification effort.  Clear, open communication is the first step in  
    establishing a positive long term relationship with neighborhood residents.  
  
    While notification is an excellent way to begin to address the potential  
    concerns and questions that neighbors and community members may have about a  
    housing project, long term success with the neighborhood will come from a long  
    term commitment to a relationship with project neighbors.  Through its funding  
    processes, the City seeks to balance its support for specific projects that it  
    funds with the desire that those projects borrowers make a good faith commitment  
    to positive, constructive relationships with the neighborhood.  
  
    Borrowers will be required to include a description of their community  
    notification process in project applications.  The community notification  
    process for projects that involve site acquisition must begin no later than upon  
    achieving site control as defined in OH funding announcement documents.  The  
    process for projects that do not involve acquisition must begin at least one  
    month prior to submission of an application to OH.  Borrowers will be required  
    to notify immediate neighbors (within 300 feet of property lines) and  
    appropriate community groups prior to submittal of a project application in  
    response to a NOFA.  Borrowers must use notification either by mail or flyers  
    delivered door to door, and good neighbor guidelines developed by OH as they  
    work with community members to site projects.  A notification plan and the  
    results of the notification process activities must be included in funding  
    applications to OH.  Applicants will be required to conduct notification  
    activities outlined in OH funding announcement documents.  
  
    Community support will be considered a positive factor in reviewing a project;  
    however, community support of a project will not be a requirement of funding.  
    Consistent with fair housing requirements, community opposition based on any  
    discriminatory motivation, including opposition to families with children or  
    persons with disabilities, shall not be taken into account.  
  
    Failure to comply with notification guidelines may result in rejection of an  
    application, denial of funding, deferral of funding pending further notification  
    efforts, or other remedies as determined by the OH Director.  
  
    9. OCCUPANCY AND RENT REQUIREMENTS  
  
    (a.) Income Eligible Tenants and Affordable Rent Levels  
  
    * General rule: Program funds are available only for units that will be  
      occupied by tenants with incomes at or below the applicable limits at  
      affordable rents for the respective income categories.  Tenant households  
      with income above the eligibility levels are called "over-income tenants."  
      City funding will not be available for units that will be occupied by  
      residents with income greater than 80% of median income (at the time of  
      their initial occupancy or the time of City funding, if later); however, the  
      City may require as a funding condition that units occupied by such tenants,  
      although not City-funded, become rent-regulated under a City Regulatory  
      Agreement when occupancy changes.  
  
    * Where an existing, occupied project is to be acquired or rehabilitated with  
      Levy funds targeted at 30%, 50% or 60% of median income, and some units  
      subsidized with those funds are occupied by over-income tenants with income  
      up to 80% of median income,  Levy funds may be used for units that will be  
      brought into compliance with income and affordability rules for the target  
      income group within two years of the date of the loan agreement.  The  
      initial regulatory term would be established for a fifty-two year period.  
      By the end of the initial two-year period after the date of the loan  
      agreement, over-income tenants would need to be relocated or the Borrower  
      would be in default and required to return a prorata portion of the Levy  
      funding.  
  
    * Extremely low-income tenant households (30% of median and below) in units  
      subsidized through the Operating and Maintenance Program  generally will be  
      required to pay 35% of their incomes toward rent and utilities, consistent  
      with City Council policy direction for that Program.  
  
    * Tenants who are income-eligible at the time of their initial occupancy or  
      the time of City funding, whichever is later, generally are not required to  
      be  relocated merely because they become over-income tenants through changes  
      in income or household size.  
  
    * See subsection (e.) for policies applicable to projects receiving HUD "Section  
      8" or certain other subsidies.  
  
    (b.) Rent Increases  
  
    * After-rehabilitation or after acquisition rents for low-income tenants in  
    Levy-funded units generally should not exceed before-rehabilitation or before-  
    acquisition rents. Displacement of low-income tenants due to after-  
    rehabilitation or after-acquisition rent increases should be avoided.  Higher  
    after-rehabilitation or after-acquisition rents will be considered only if  
    necessary to insure adequate project operating funds.  After-rehabilitation and  
    after-acquisition rents for vacant units and rents for newly constructed units  
    should generally not exceed an average of the rents for comparable occupied  
    units.  
  
    * During the loan term, rents for occupied units can be increased in proportion  
    to increases in the Housing Component of the CPI for Rent of Primary Residences  
    for the Seattle area, provided that the adjusted rent can be no greater than the  
    maximum affordable rent for the target income category specified in the project  
    regulatory agreement.  However, projects that have experienced extraordinary  
    expenses may request an increase greater than the amount allowed using the  
    escalation factor provided that the rent is consistent with the applicable  
    affordability restrictions and OH has reviewed the request and approved it.  
    Upon unit turnover, rents may be adjusted to the maximum allowable rent based on  
    number of bedrooms and affordability level.  OH will publish the CPI escalation  
    factor and maximum affordable rents by number of bedrooms annually. The intent  
    is to not cause displacement of residents or undue financial hardship on  
    borrowers.  
  
    * Borrowers shall establish operating costs in operating proforma approved by  
    OH.  Operating costs shall include taxes, insurance, utilities, salaries,  
    management fees, replacement and operating reserves, maintenance supplies and  
    services, and other such expenses as shall be allowed by OH.  
  
    * At no time during the term of the loan can rents payable by tenants for units  
    occupied by income-eligible tenants exceed "affordable levels" as defined above.  
  
    * Rents for over-income tenants may be increased above "affordable rent levels."  
    If the property includes market-rate units or units with different income  
    eligibility levels, and if OH has approved a "floating unit" regime, the unit  
    occupied by an over-income tenant may cease to be considered a City-funded unit,  
    or may be moved to a higher income category, upon substitution of a comparable  
    unit.  
  
    * If Borrowers propose to use surplus income from one project to subsidize  
    another project, OH shall closely review the finances of the affected  
    developments to assure that such a use would not jeopardize the affordability  
    requirements or financial viability of either project.  
  
    (c.) Fund Allocation Policy  
  
    Levy Program funds for Rental Preservation and Production are subject to the  
    following affordability policy:  
  
    * At least 59% of Levy Rental Preservation and Production Program funds shall be  
    used for housing affordable to households with incomes up to 30% of median  
    income;  
  
    * Up to 10% of Levy Rental Preservation and Production Program funds may be used  
    for housing affordable to households with incomes at or below 60% of median  
    income;  
  
    * A target of 31% of Levy Rental Preservation and Production Program funds shall  
    be used for housing affordable to households with incomes at or below 50% of  
    median income.  The actual amount will be determined based on the amount of  
    funds used for housing units affordable to households up to 30% and 60% of  
    median incomes, as shows above.  
  
    * OH administers the fund allocation policy across the Rental Preservation and  
    Production program as a whole, not on an individual project-by-project basis.  
    The policy is administered on a two-year cycle.  All projects approved for Levy  
    program funding from January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2004 shall be included  
    in calculating City affordability policy goals for the 2003-2004 period.  
  
    (d.) Other Policies  
  
    * Project sponsors who have committed to serve specific populations must obtain  
    OH approval for any change in low-income population to be served.  If some event  
    occurs, such as loss of services funding, that the borrower believes requires a  
    change in the tenant population, the borrower should consult with OH concerning  
    alternatives and then current City priorities.  
  
    * Commercial space rental income should be used to reduce residential rents or  
    to subsidize the housing operating expenses whenever possible.  
  
    * Rent levels for units assisted under both the Housing Levy Program policies  
    and directly under federal HUD programs shall be consistent with applicable  
    federal laws or regulations now or hereafter in effect, and any terms of HUD or  
    SHA contracts.  Where rent subsidies or vouchers are provided by HUD or SHA, the  
    Director may allow the total rent charged to be the maximum allowed by HUD or  
    SHA, provided that the tenant is not required to pay an amount that would exceed  
    affordable rent (unless the tenant is an over-income tenant).  
  
    * For so long as Housing Levy Operating and Maintenance Program subsidies are  
    provided with respect to a unit, the rent requirements contained in the portion  
    of this Administrative and Financial Plan governing that Program shall apply to  
    that unit and shall supersede any other rent limitations otherwise applicable,  
    except as stated in the preceding paragraph.  
  
    10. LOAN CONDITIONS  
  
    The intent of the Levy is to provide long-term low-income housing for permanent  
    or transitional occupancy.  Loan conditions are meant to promote and encourage  
    long-term use of properties for low-income housing.  
    The OH Director may deviate from the loan terms and conditions contained in this  
    Plan:  
  
    * for tax credit partnerships, where such loan terms may impair the availability  
    of tax benefits; or  
  
    * when the sponsor expects to receive other funding sources from which full or  
    partial repayment of the City loan can be made prior to the normal maturity  
    date.  
  
    Debt service requirements may be established depending on income level served,  
    operating budgets, and extent of other subsidies used.  "Tax credit  
    partnerships" may include limited liability companies or other entities  
    organized to utilize low-income housing tax credits and/or other tax credits.  
  
    (a.) Loan Terms  
  
    Permanent loan terms will be a minimum of 50 years.  OH may provide an  
    acquisition or construction loan for a much shorter term that is eligible for  
    conversion to a permanent loan upon satisfaction of conditions.  
  
    (b.) Interest Rate  
  
    The interest rate for projects not using low-income housing tax credits will  
    generally be 1% for nonprofit-sponsored projects, 3% for private for-profit-  
    sponsored projects, and will be set according to the project's ability to  
    support debt service.  The interest rate for projects using low-income housing  
    tax credits will be a minimum of 1% simple interest and a maximum of the  
    Applicable Federal Rate for the purposes of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue  
    Code, depending on the project's projected capacity for repayment.  The actual  
    interest rate for projects using low-income housing tax credits will generally  
    range from 1-3% and will be set on a case-by-case basis.  The interest rate will  
    exceed 1% where there is a net financial benefit to the project.  The purpose of  
    establishing a range for the interest rate on Levy funds is to provide  
    flexibility in financial structuring to maximize tax credit equity contributions  
    and to help preserve long-term affordability.  Interest on program loans will  
    accrue annually as simple interest.  
  
    (c.) Repayment  
  
    OH will generally make deferred payment loans that must be repaid upon  
    availability of surplus, residual income, and are payable in full on sale,  
    change of use, or at the end of the loan term. Borrowers may further defer  
    payment of principal, deferred interest, and contingent interest by extending  
    the loan term.  Amortizing loans will be required if project budgets can afford  
    repayment and meet required rent levels.  Amount of repayment required will be  
    established as each project is reviewed.  
  
    (d.) Transfer and Assumption  
  
    The OH Director may permit the transfer and assumption of the loan, and the  
    transfer of the property acquired, constructed or rehabilitated with the  
    proceeds of the loan, without requiring repayment of principal, interest or  
    other amounts owing under the loan at the time of the transfer, under any of the  
    following circumstances:  
  
    * The loan is assumed by a tax credit partnership and the partnership makes a  
    substantial equity investment in the low-income housing;  
  
    * The property is transferred by a tax credit partnership to a nonprofit  
    corporation or public agency approved by the Director, including without  
    limitation a transfer to the general partner pursuant to the terms of an option  
    agreement made in connection with the formation of the limited partnership; or  
  
    * The property is transferred, with the approval of the Director, to a qualified  
    nonprofit corporation or public agency, without substantial consideration to the  
    transferor other than assumption by the transferee of outstanding obligations.  
  
    (e.) Covenant  
  
    A covenant will be recorded against the property that requires continued use of  
    the property for low-income housing for the stated term of the loan, and for any  
    period for which the loan is extended.  Unless otherwise agreed by the Director,  
    the covenant shall continue in effect if the loan is repaid or discharged before  
    the maturity.  The Director may release the covenant, wholly or in part, in  
    connection with a sale of the property approved by the Director, including any  
    foreclosure, if the Director determines that under all the circumstances,  
    including any proposed substitution of other units, the release will likely  
    result in a net benefit to the City's efforts to achieve low-income housing  
    goals, compared to maintaining the covenant.  
  
    (f.) Contingent Interest  
  
    City participation in project equity in the event of change of use or sale of  
    property (contingent interest) shall be required for all Rental Preservation and  
    Production Program projects.  Upon sale, change of use, or repayment of the  
    loan, loan principal plus the greater of either deferred interest or contingent  
    interest shall be due. Contingent interest shall be calculated according to a  
    formula established by OH.  
  
    The City's contingent interest should reflect the amount of City funds  
    contributed as permanent financing to a project and should be modified by any  
    additional funds contributed during the loan term, such as capital contributions  
    approved by the City or borrower subsidy necessary to cover operating losses.  
    For example, if City funds are 50% of total project costs; the City should  
    receive 50% of proceeds remaining after repayment of approved project debt (but  
    not including contingent interest owing to other project lenders).  
  
    (g.) Prepayment Premium  
  
    Prepayment of loans under the Rental Preservation and Production Program will be  
    subject to Office of Housing approval.  Such approval shall not be unreasonably  
    withheld if the borrower provides adequate assurances of future compliance with  
    the affordability and occupancy restrictions in the regulatory agreement and  
    recorded covenant.  If a borrower repays the City loan (principal plus the  
    greater of interest or contingent interest) during the first 15 years of the  
    loan term, a prepayment premium shall also be due.  
  
    The prepayment premium shall be 50% of the original loan principal if the loan  
    is repaid during the first five years of the loan term.  The prepayment will  
    decline by 5% per year in years 6 through 15. There will be no prepayment  
    premium after 15 years.  
  
    Prepayment premiums shall not be due in the event of involuntary prepayment, due  
    to casualty where there are insufficient insurance proceeds or other sources  
    reasonably available to complete the repairs or condemnation.  
  
    (h.) Loan Term Extension  
  
    Any unpaid principal balance and accrued, but unpaid interest on OH loans will  
    be due and payable at the end of the 50 year loan term; however, borrowers shall  
    have the option of extension, or, in certain circumstances, forgiveness of the  
    OH debt. At the end of the loan term, borrowers will be encouraged to extend the  
    loan term and continue to extend the period of affordability restrictions for an  
    additional 25 years, provided the property continues to be in compliance with  
    the OH affordability requirements.  
  
    (i.) Projects Serving Extremely Low-Income.  
  
    Projects serving extremely low-income households shall be defined as projects  
    with 50% or more units with rents affordable to residents with incomes at 30% or  
    less of median income.  For such projects, debt is forgivable under the  
    following terms: if the loan term is extended for 25 years, the loan principal  
    and accrued, unpaid interest will be forgiven at the rate of 4% per year (of the  
    total principal balance and accrued interest obligation as of the end of the  
    initial loan term), so long as the borrower and the property remain in  
    compliance with OH loan documents.  
  
      (j.) Other Low-Income Housing Projects.  
  
    For any other types of projects, debt is not forgivable, but if the period of  
    affordability restrictions is extended for an additional 25 years, the borrower  
    may extend the repayment term for 25 years and continue to pay the outstanding  
    debt only from surplus, residual receipts.  
  
    (k.) Use of Funds Owing to the City  
  
    Sale of projects during the loan term requires City consent. Loan funds returned  
    to the City will be deposited in the Low-Income Housing Fund.  Funds will not  
    necessarily be reallocated to the Levy program from which they were committed.  
    Funds returned from all Levy programs will be reallocated by OH to low-income  
    housing projects according to priorities established in the current  
    Administrative and Financial Plan or appropriate City policy plans as determined  
    by OH.  
  
    (l.) Refinancing  
  
    OH shall establish a policy for allowing refinancing of properties with OH  
    loans.  OH may allow refinancing of the existing private debt in cases that  
    result in additional capital investment in the project, that result in a lower  
    interest rate, or that produce some other long-term project benefit.  In  
    general, OH will subordinate its deed of trust to new financing on reasonable  
    terms if the outstanding principal balance of the new loan does not exceed the  
    existing balance, or if the additional debt is used to repay a portion of the OH  
    loan or for low-income housing purposes approved by OH, or some combination of  
    these uses.  OH shall review refinancing proposals, including the proposed new  
    financing terms, proposed transaction costs, an assessment of the capital needs  
    of the development and the adequacy of reserve accounts, and may define  
    additional submittal requirements.  
  
    (m.) Additional Project Subsidies  
  
    At the end of the loan term and at the borrower's request any time during the  
    loan term, the City and the borrower should review the status of a project and  
    evaluate its continued feasibility.  Projects will be underwritten with the goal  
    of having a financing plan that achieves self-sufficiency for each project, so  
    that repairs and improvements can be fully covered from the project's operating  
    income or reserves.  The City recognizes that in some cases a capital subsidy  
    may be needed to assure the continued life of the project. If capital and  
    operating subsidies necessary to maintain project viability are not available,  
    the City and the borrower should in good faith use their best efforts to jointly  
    develop strategies to maintain affordability and project viability.  Remedies to  
    maintain project viability may include additional City, other public, or private  
    resources, as well as City-approved adjustments in rent levels or number of  
    project units that must remain low-income, consistent with City policy and other  
    applicable laws and regulations.  
  
    Under certain circumstances, the Office of Housing may use a portion of Levy  
    Rental Preservation and Production funds to meet the capital needs of existing  
    city-funded projects,  if the project meets the following criteria: a) the  
    property has a critical capital need or code violation that cannot be addressed  
    through the property's cash flow, reserves or other available resources, b) no  
    other funding is available within the time frame required for the project, c) a  
    public benefit will be realized as a result of the additional City funds, d) the  
    borrower will make a significant financial contribution, and e) the borrower has  
    demonstrated a plan for capable management and fiscal operations of the  
    property.  Such funds may be provided as shorter-term loans or added to existing  
    long-term OH loans, as OH may determine based on the circumstances of the  
    project.  
  
    (n.) Property Standards  
  
    Borrowers will be required to provide well-maintained and well-managed housing.  
    Loan conditions will require sufficient replacement and operating reserves to  
    help ensure projects are well maintained and managed.  
  
    (o.) Non-Recourse  
  
    Loans generally shall be made on a non-recourse basis, with the City's remedy  
    limited to its security in the project, project rents, and project reserves,  
    except in cases of fraud, waste or other circumstances determined by the OH  
    Director to justify recourse against the borrower.  OH may require recourse to  
    the borrower or a guarantor, either temporarily or until certain conditions are  
    satisfied, in particular circumstances where the City's security in the property  
    may be inadequate.  
  
    (p.) Leases  
  
    Site control through ownership of property is preferred to site control through  
    a long-term lease except in cases where the lessor and lessee agree to accept  
    the loan conditions described above and the City receives security in both  
    leasehold and fee interests.  Projects involving a borrower that is a lessee  
    where lessor and lessee do not both accept these terms and conditions will be  
    permitted only if the project represents an unusual cost-effective opportunity  
    or furthers other community development objectives.  Project borrowers will be  
    required to provide well-maintained and well-managed housing.  
  
    The following conditions will apply to properties where the borrower is the  
    lessee and the owner does not agree to accept the normal loan terms and  
    conditions above:  
  
    * Repayment  
    Loans involving leases must be structured to provide for repayment over the life  
    of the lease. The OH Director may modify the normal repayment terms, as  
    appropriate, by requiring different terms from or in addition to those generally  
    specified by this Administrative and Financial Plan.  
  
    * Construction standard  
    Projects must meet construction standards appropriate for and consistent with  
    the length of the lease term.  Replacement reserves should be sufficient to  
    maintain decent, safe, and sanitary housing during the lease term. Replacement  
    reserve funds remaining at the end of the lease term should be used in other  
    low-income housing projects.  
  
    * Borrower equity  
    Borrowers must contribute equity to the project.  OH will establish the  
    appropriate requirement for each project.  
  
    * Interest rate  
    The interest rate shall be consistent with Section 10(b) above.  
  
    * Lease term  
    Minimum lease term is 50 years with preference for longer terms when feasible.  
    The lease term must exceed the City loan term by at least six months.  
  
    * Security  
    Security for the City loan should be appropriate to protect the City's interest  
    in repayment of the loan.  
  
    (q.) Special Needs Projects  
  
    Borrowers of projects with units restricted to persons with particular special  
    needs may propose to change the special needs or target population group being  
    served in a project sometime during the 50-year loan term.  If an event occurs  
    requiring a change in population group served, borrowers of special needs  
    projects will first be required to serve another special needs population  
    approved by the City.  If OH determines that that is not feasible or  
    appropriate, OH may allow a general income-eligible population to be served.  
  
    (r.) Use of Levy Projects as Security for Other Low-Income Projects  
  
    Borrowers may use Levy-funded projects as security for financing other low-  
    income housing projects if borrowers receive advance written approval from OH.  
    OH may give such approval if the borrower demonstrates that using a Levy-funded  
    project as security for financing another project will achieve benefits for the  
    City and not jeopardize the viability of the Levy-funded projects.  
  
    (s.) Bridge Loans  
  
    The terms described above apply to long-term loans of Levy funds.  OH also may  
    make short-term "bridge loans" from Levy funds, including Operations and  
    Maintenance Program funds, or other available funds.  A bridge loan may be made  
    to enable property acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation to proceed when  
    the borrower can provide assurance satisfactory to OH that permanent funding  
    will be provided from other sources on acceptable terms within a reasonable  
    period of time, in order to repay the bridge loan, but that the borrower is not  
    reasonably able to obtain interim financing from other sources.  The term of  
    bridge loans shall be two years or less.  OH shall require payment of a  
    reasonable rate of interest, which shall be no less than 3% simple interest,  
    and/or a loan fee for providing the bridge loan.  
  
    Bridge loans shall be made (except as noted below) only to projects also  
    receiving long-term loans of Levy funds or of other permanent take-out funds  
    made available on terms similar to those applicable to long-term loans.   A  
    bridge loan may be made as a component of a larger Levy loan in order to  
    minimize documentation  
  
    Bridge loans may be made to Section 8 Preservation projects to facilitate  
    transfer of ownership to a group prequalified by OH to acquire these projects.  
    Bridge loans may also be made to assist in the acquisition of sites or buildings  
    in NHOP economically distressed neighborhoods or certain neighborhood areas when  
    needed to implement Neighborhood Plan identified strategies and advocated by a  
    neighborhood community organization(s).  In these situations, projects do not  
    need to come through a NOFA competitive process for bridge loan assistance.  
  
    Bridge loans are not included in computing the City subsidy per project, but may  
    not be used to fund construction or rehabilitation of commercial space or  
    housing not serving eligible households, or acquisition of property for such  
    purposes.  OH may permit the conversion of all or a portion of a bridge loan  
    into a long-term Levy loan where cost per project limits would not then be  
    exceeded and when a project needs additional permanent funding or when  
    additional eligible households may then be served.  For a project in which fewer  
    than all of the units in a building or complex are initially funded by the City,  
    conversion to a long-term loan may be conditioned upon dedication of additional  
    units to Levy-eligible housing.  
  
    (t.) Conduit Financing  
  
    In order to take advantage of opportunities or to respond to requirements of  
    particular projects, the Director may provide Levy funds to a project  
    indirectly, for example by a loan to a borrower that then relends the funds to a  
    project owner or lessee.  Such financing may include, without limitation,  
    acquisition of tax-exempt bonds from a conduit financing agency where the  
    proceeds are used for an eligible project.  In general, the project owner or  
    lessee in such cases must agree to the regulatory terms described above and must  
    provide a deed of trust that is assigned to the City.  
  
    11. FAIR CONTRACTING PRACTICES; WMBE UTILIZATION  
  
    Borrowers must comply with the City's Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance.  
    Borrowers and their general contractors shall be encouraged to take actions,  
    consistent with that ordinance, that would increase opportunities for women and  
    minority business enterprises (WMBEs).  A combined WMBE aspirational goal of 14%  
    of the total construction and other contracted services contracts shall apply to  
    each  rental project funded by OH (including Levy and other OH fund sources).  
    Borrowers are encouraged to take actions that would increase opportunities for  
    WMBE contractors.  OH shall encourage other efforts to increase WMBE  
    participation including mentoring programs and participation in apprenticeship  
    and other training opportunities.  OH will assess utilization and other results  
    during the first year and determine if policy changes are needed at year-end to  
    better meet aspirational goals.  
  
    12. LEVERAGING  
  
    A goal of the Levy is to leverage non-City resources for capital, operating, and  
    supportive services to the greatest extent possible.  Project borrowers are  
    encouraged to combine Levy funds with resources from federal and State programs,  
    e.g., McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, State Housing Trust Fund, State  
    Operating and Maintenance Funds and King County Document Recording Fees.  
    Leveraging of foundation and grant funds, and owner equity are strongly  
    encouraged.  Borrowers shall consider Levy funds as matching funds for other  
    fund sources.  
  
    In the project selection process, projects will be evaluated on the extent to  
    which non-City funds are included while, at the same time, affordable rents are  
    maintained for low-income households.  Projects may be approved contingent on  
    borrower application for funding from appropriate non-City, public fund sources  
    that may reduce the need for Levy funds.  
  
    Use of the low-income housing tax credit and historic preservation tax credit  
    programs will be encouraged whenever possible.  In general, project equity  
    available as a result of participation in a tax credit program after a  
    reasonable allowance for the costs of obtaining such equity shall be used to  
    reduce the City's share of project funding.  The OH Director may allow a portion  
    of the equity funding from tax credits to reduce the other funding sources'  
    shares of project financing or be used to subsidize operating expenses of  
    special needs projects.  
  
    13. RELOCATION AND DISPLACEMENT  
  
    In general, the City will not assist projects that result in the permanent  
    displacement of low-income tenants.  It shall be a goal to fund projects that  
    maintain or increase the number of low-income housing units and that do not  
    cause a net loss of housing units, unless special conditions warrant such a  
    loss.  In limited cases, such as when redevelopment changes the number of units  
    in a project, the City recognizes that permanent displacement may occur. In such  
    cases, the applicable City, State and/or federal relocation guidelines shall  
    apply.  
  
    Borrowers are strongly encouraged to consult OH as soon as possible for  
    information regarding relocation when they are considering acquisition and/or  
    rehabilitation of an occupied building.  Even in projects where tenants will not  
    be temporarily relocated, borrowers will be required to provide appropriate  
    notification of acquisition/rehabilitation plans to existing residential and  
    commercial tenants.  
  
    14. MANAGEMENT PLAN  
  
    Good management is critical to the overall success of projects.  Project  
    borrowers will be required to submit a management plan to OH for approval.  
    Management plans should include the following:  
  
    * The occupancy standard (minimum and maximum number of persons for each type of  
    unit) for the project.  Any occupancy standards and their implementation must  
    not conflict with federal, State or City Fair Housing standards.  
  
    * Rent collection policies and procedures for dealing with late payments of rent  
    and damage to units.  
  
    * Description of management philosophy and experience serving proposed client  
    population.  
  
    * Identification of key staff position(s) both on and off-site involved in  
    managing the building including a description of staff responsibilities,  
    previous experience, and program for staff training.  
  
    * Policies for making budget adjustments including expenditures of replacement  
    and operating reserves.  
  
    * Description of long-term maintenance plan, including a schedule for both  
    exterior and interior maintenance of the building.  
  
    * Description of building security and emergency plan.  
  
    * Description of the tenant screening and selection process.  
  
    * Plan describing how vacant units will be filled.  
  
    * Commitment to the City's Just Cause Eviction Ordinance.  
  
    * Referral process from programs serving households who are homeless.  
  
    * Affirmative Marketing Plan -- plan must include marketing methods designed to  
    reach tenants from all segments of the community, including tenants who are  
    persons of color and persons with disabilities.  
  
    * Because a substantial number of persons who are homeless are persons of color,  
    minorities, non-English-speaking persons and persons with disabilities, it will  
    be important for proposals serving people who are homeless to demonstrate  
    borrower understanding of the needs of persons form diverse backgrounds and  
    cultures and of persons with disabilities.  
  
    * Description of ongoing community education and involvement strategy, including  
    steps that would be taken to address complaints or issues raised by tenants and  
    neighbors about the building or tenants.  
  
    * Copy of leases or rental agreements to be used.  
  
    * Description of the process for determining rent increases, and for informing  
    tenants of rent increases.  
  
    * Schedule for periodic capital needs assessment of life cycle cost analysis for  
    the replacement of major building components to ensure the replacement reserve  
    is adequate for the life of the project.  
  
    Management plans for special needs housing, transitional housing, or other  
    housing requesting support services funding should also include the following  
    information:  
  
    * Description of service support program to be provided to tenant households.  
  
    * Description of process for selecting/referring homeless households living in  
    emergency shelters to the transitional housing project.  
  
    * Demonstration that adequate funding is available for the service support  
    program component.  
  
    * Identification of key staff responsible for coordinating or providing  
    supportive services.  
  
    * If different agencies are responsible for managing the housing units and the  
    supportive services program, description of relationship between agencies and  
    copies of written agreements between the agencies.  
  
    * Involvement of tenants in project governance.  
  
    * Description of performance or outcome measures.  
  
    15. PROJECT SELECTION  
  
    Applicants will submit proposals to OH in response to a general Notice of  
    Funding Availability (NOFA).  OH will publish the NOFA schedule at the beginning  
    of each year.  The NOFA will describe when applications may be submitted and  
    outline application requirements.  All applications must include information  
    requested in the NOFA.  Incomplete applications will be returned to applicants;  
    minor deficiencies may be corrected during the review process---major  
    deficiencies will cause the application to be withdrawn from the funding round.  
  
    All applicants are strongly encouraged to attend a project pre-application  
    conference with OH staff prior to submitting an application for funding,  
    consistent with requirements outlined in the NOFA.  Funding applications will  
    first be reviewed by OH staff.  Staff will review project proposals for  
    consistency with levy policies and develop funding conditions, if appropriate.  
  
    The Director may reserve a portion of any year's Levy appropriation in order to  
    provide additional funding for approved projects if required due to unforeseen  
    cost increases or unavailability of other funds expected at the time of  
    approval.  If additional funds become available, for example, due to  
    cancellation of a project or cost savings, the Director may apply such funds to  
    any such necessary increase and/or to projects for which qualifying applications  
    were received in response to a prior NOFA but that could not be funded, or could  
    not be fully funded, due to insufficient funds then available.  
  
    Funding recommendations shall be made by a Credit Committee, comprised of  
    persons appointed by the OH Director.  The Credit Committee shall include  
    private and public sector housing finance professionals, as well as  
    representatives of the Mayor's Office and City Council, if available, and other  
    persons with expertise in affordable housing.  The OH Director, whose decisions  
    on funding shall be final, will make project selection decisions based on  
    Director's judgement as to the overall mix of projects that will best implement  
    the City's policies.  Results will be reported to the Housing Levy Oversight  
    Committee.  Project selection will be based on, but not limited to, the  
    following general criteria:  
  
    * Reasonable Cost --- project cost comparison.  
  
    * Project readiness --- is the applicant ready to move the project forward in a  
    timely way; is the timing of the other funding sources sequenced appropriately?  
  
    * Program Focus --- which projects best meet program focus objectives?  
  
    * Overall investment opportunity --- which projects provide the most public  
    benefit for the City?  
  
    * Community Development Opportunity --- which projects offer community benefit  
    beyond provision of housing units?  
  
    * Borrower's track record --- has applicant demonstrated successful development  
    and operation of affordable housing, is applicant agency current with all  
    reporting information on previously funded projects; does borrower have adequate  
    financial capacity; are previously funded projects proceeding on schedule and  
    within budget?  
  
    The criteria will be published in NOFA documents, with more explanation on how  
    criteria will be applied.  
  
    Projects could be refused consideration for funding if an application is  
    submitted for funding and has been determined to be substantially incomplete.  
    Applicants may submit requests for reconsideration of staff decision to the OH  
    Director.  Request requirements, along with time frame for submittal, will be  
    published in the NOFA.  Except for applicants that have submitted applications  
    that are substantially incomplete, all applications received in a timely manner  
    will receive consideration for funding.  
  
    * Decisions to fund projects, when announced by the Director are preliminary and  
    not binding on the City until contract documents are negotiated and signed by  
    both the Director and the applicant.  After funding decisions are announced, the  
    Director may revoke or reduce funding to any project based on a number of  
    factors, such as failure of the applicant to obtain other funding; noncompliance  
    by the applicant with City policies; determination of inaccuracies in the  
    information submitted; increased costs or other factors affecting feasibility;  
    results of environmental or other reviews; or failure to the applicant to agree  
    to loan conditions.  The Director also may increase funds to a project after  
    initial funding decisions are made if reasonably necessary to assure success of  
    the project or maximum public benefit, based on new information not available at  
    the time of the initial decision.  
  
    16. PROJECT PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS  
  
    OH will release Notice of Fund Availability (NOFA) documents that outline  
    specific project proposal requirements.  Applicants will be required to submit  
    information on proposed projects that may include, but not be limited to, the  
    items below.  Information will be requested from applicants in a manner and time  
    appropriate to the specific type of project selection process.  
  
    * Project description, including location, number of units, current rents, and  
    special characteristics.  
  
    * Evidence demonstrating project applicant experience:  
    * Development experience  
    * Ownership experience  
    * Management experience  
    * Experience serving proposed population.  
    * Recent audits and current organizational financial information  
  
    Proposal should indicate who would carry out activities listed above and  
    demonstrate appropriate prior experience and capacity to carry out activities.  
  
    * Experience of development team -- description of development team members and  
    their experience with the type of project proposed.  
  
    * Construction description -- proposed rehabilitation/development plan including  
    total scope of work, detailed cost estimates, drawings, reports and evidence of  
    predesign conference with Department of Construction and Land Use (DCLU).  
  
    * Development schedule -- timetable for development of the project.  
  
    * Phase I site assessment including asbestos/lead paint/hazardous materials  
    survey -- a survey to identify the presence and amount of asbestos/lead paint  
    and/or any other hazardous materials or underground tanks within the building or  
    elsewhere on site and a description of proposed abatement measures.  A Phase II  
    assessment will be required if recommended in the Phase I.  
  
    * Development budget, including acquisition, rehabilitation or new construction  
    costs, and any relocation costs.  
  
    * Operating budget, including 15 year operating proforma with proposed rents and  
    justification for operating subsidy, if requested.  
  
    * Fund sources -- description of all project fund sources including amounts and  
    evidence of funding commitments.  
  
    * Tenant profile -- description of proposed and existing tenants, household  
    size, estimate and source of tenant income, discussion of the need for and  
    extent of relocation.  
  
    * Support services -- budget and description of all services to be provided on  
    and off site as appropriate, for the tenant population to be served.  
  
    * Evidence of site control -- In addition to fee simple ownership, an option to  
    purchase, an earnest money agreement, a lease (or option to lease) with a  
    minimum term of 50 years, will constitute site control.  OH will consider  
    projects where the underlying ownership is through a real estate contract if the  
    contract holder is willing to subordinate his/her interest to the OH loan or if  
    there is adequate provision for the applicant to discharge the underlying  
    contract and obtain fee title.  
  
    * Appraisal -- If the project involves acquisition, an appraised value based on  
    the highest and best use at the time of property acquisition will be used to  
    assess whether or not a fair price is paid for land or a building. Appraisals,  
    or letter of opinion, will be ordered by OH, or may be used if ordered by  
    another project lending source acceptable to the City. Project applicants should  
    make acquisition offers subject to verification by appraisals acceptable to the  
    City.  
  
    * Community notification -- description of results of community notification  
    process and any results at time of application and plans for additional  
    notification activities.  Proposal must describe how community issues or  
    concerns raised will be addressed.  
  
    * Zoning -- description of zoning exception required, if applicable (examples of  
    zoning exceptions: variance, special exception, design departure, and  
    conditional use).  Zoning exception approval may not be required at time of  
    project application but normally will be required prior to final loan  
    commitment, and evidence that approval can be secured in a timely manner will be  
    required at time of project application.  
  
    In addition to information listed above, projects serving special needs  
    populations will be required to submit the following:  
  
    * Project description -- including description of housing and supportive  
    services program.  Applicant must describe population to be served and  
    demonstrate how project will serve that population.  Applicant must demonstrate  
    extent of "market" or level of need for proposed project and describe project's  
    impact on the target population.  
  
    * Evidence of site suitability -- explanation why site is suitable for homeless  
    group being served.  
  
    17. CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS  
  
    The following construction requirements will apply unless otherwise noted in the  
    NOFA application. These requirements apply equally to both permanent and  
    transitional housing projects.  
  
    Applicants will be expected to provide quality housing that will last for 50  
    years or longer.  
  
    * Sustainability  
    The SeaGreen Affordable Housing Guide was developed by OH to promote energy  
    conservation, operational savings, and sustainable building practices in  
    affordable multifamily housing projects.  The strategies included in the  
    SeaGreen Guide work to reduce operating costs, promote healthy environments and  
    protect and conserve resources in City funded affordable housing projects.  The  
    SeaGreen Guide was completed in November 2002, and likely will be updated  
    periodically to reflect experience and changes in technology and sustainability  
    practices.  
  
    Sustainable building practices can include (but are not limited to) conservation  
    and environmental measures related to:  
  
    * Enhanced Design  
    * Site & Water  
    * Energy Efficiency  
    * Health & Indoor Air Quality  
    * Materials Efficiency  
    * Operation & Maintenance  
  
    Applicants are required to complete SeaGreen Sustainability Plan Template  
    checklist and describe their sustainability plans.  The checklist should be  
    submitted with the NOFA application.  
  
    * Universal Design Principles  
    Applicants are strongly encouraged, to the maximum extent financially feasible,  
    to incorporate Universal Design Principles in housing units developed under the  
    rental production and neighborhood opportunity programs.  
  
    * Rehabilitation  
    Rehabilitation standards will be flexible to accommodate a wide variety of unit  
    and building types.  Buildings will be required at a minimum to meet health and  
    safety requirements of the Seattle Housing and Building Maintenance Codes.  
    Rehabilitation work will largely focus on repair/replacement of major building  
    systems necessary to insure viable long-term housing. In addition, overall  
    design of the project and proposed improvements must be appropriate to tenants  
    to be housed.  
  
    * Phased Rehabilitation  
  
    Phased rehabilitation refers to work items identified when a project is  
    initially inspected but postponed until a later date. Work that could be  
    postponed includes building components which have some remaining useful life or  
    items like windows which could be replaced over several years.  Work that would  
    cause previously completed improvements to be redone cannot be phased.  
  
    Phased rehabilitation will be considered provided that all work items identified  
    at the time a project is considered for funding and postponed until a future  
    date have an identified funding source. Project budgets must either be  
    structured to allow sufficient reserve funds to build up to pay for work  
    postponed, or another source of funding must be identified.  
  
     Applicants must present a phased rehabilitation plan to OH for approval. A  
    decision to phase rehabilitation will be made by OH within the context of a  
    complete building evaluation that includes a total scope of rehabilitation and a  
    cost for the entire project.  
  
    Plans for addressing project rehabilitation needs based on thorough building  
    inspections will be required when projects are considered for funding. Plans  
    must include work items to be accomplished immediately following project  
    selection, and those items proposed to be phased over time. All major work items  
    generally should be included at the time a project is funded.  
  
    * Contracting Policies  
  
    As a general rule, all projects where cost of construction work exceeds $25,000  
    will follow a competitive contractor selection process.  Applicants that wish to  
    select a contractor through negotiated bid or other process must obtain advance  
    approval from the Director of the Office of Housing.  OH must approve contractor  
    qualifications for projects prior to the start of construction. Unqualified  
    contractors will be rejected. Pre-qualification of contractors will be allowed  
    for purposes of establishing a defined list of qualified contractors for  
    competitive bidding.  
  
    Competitive bids will be opened publicly. Bid openings will occur at a location  
    to be determined by applicants; bids can be opened at OH at the request of  
    applicants.  
  
    If applicants do not have sufficient in-house construction management capacity,  
    they will be required to contract for this service.  Applicants, proposing to  
    manage their own construction projects must obtain OH approval.  Such applicants  
    must have prior experience managing a construction project and have staff  
    available to coordinate necessary work.  In addition, the scope of work should  
    appropriately match the agency's self-contracting experience and staff  
    expertise.  
  
    Construction contracts shall encourage employment of female, minority and  
    economically disadvantaged workers. Hiring of people who are homeless will be  
    encouraged.  
  
    * Wage Rates  
  
    State residential prevailing wage rates shall apply to the Levy's Rental  
    Preservation and Production Program ; wage rate requirements will apply to the  
    entire building, regardless of the amount of Levy funding in the project. State  
    residential prevailing wage rates shall be the minimum rates paid for project  
    construction.  When federal funds are also used in a project, the higher of  
    either the State residential prevailing wage rates (unless modified as stated  
    above) or Davis-Bacon wage rates (if applicable under federal law) will apply.  
    OH Director may approve a change in these requirements if necessary to achieve  
    compatibility with a state or federal funding source or to promote the including  
    of Levy-funded units in mixed income and/or mixed-use buildings.  
  
    * Apprenticeship Program Participation  
  
    Applicants are encouraged to require contractors to participate in State-  
    approved apprenticeship programs. Applicants who demonstrate to OH's  
    satisfaction that requiring contractors to have previous experience with State-  
    approved apprenticeship programs would be beneficial for project development can  
    also include that requirement.  
  
    * Project Labor Agreements  
  
    Applicants who demonstrate to OH's satisfaction that use of a project labor  
    agreement would be beneficial for project development may require a project  
    labor agreement.  
  
    18. PROJECT MONITORING  
  
    The OH Director shall require reporting containing information on the status of  
    the project from borrowers annually, or at any time upon reasonable advance  
    notice.  
  
    Performance Measures will be based on the following principles:  
  
    * Measures must be based on information that is relatively accessible and easy  
    to collect;  
  
    * Measures must reflect what other funders require; information unique to City  
    requirements will be kept to a minimum;  
  
    * Information will be requested at times coinciding with requests from other  
    fund sources;  
  
    * City staff monitoring project site visits will be coordinated with other fund  
    sources;  
  
    * Reports provided for other fund sources will be acceptable for City monitoring  
    purposes whenever possible.  
  
    Outcomes for Housing Project Operations  
    Specific requirements will be included in loan documents, based on "Outcomes for  
    Housing Project Operations" listed below.  
  
    The ten desired outcomes of the City's multifamily low-income housing program  
    are:  
  
    1) Rents and Occupancy  
    The housing has rents affordable to low-income households and is occupied by  
    income eligible households as specified in contractual agreements with the City.  
  
    2) Safe and Sanitary Condition  
    The housing is continually in safe and sanitary condition, and is in conformance  
    with the Seattle Housing Code, the Seattle Building Code, and Housing Quality  
    Standards.  The housing project is providing all the common facilities and  
    design features originally constructed, or altered through mutual consent, in  
    the project.  
  
    3) Sound Project Fiscal Management  
    The project is being operated according to sound fiscal management practices.  
  
    4) Sound Borrower Fiscal Health  
    The project borrower is in sound fiscal health.  
  
    5) Management Plan  
    The project is operated according to the agency's original, or amended,  
    management plan.  
  
    6) Project Serves Intended Population  
    A project which is designed for a particular population or housing need, such as  
    persons who are mentally ill or have substance abuse problem is serving the  
    group approved by City and is providing services as specified in the agency's  
    management plan, as specified in contractual agreements with the City  
  
    7) Affirmative Marketing and Nondiscrimination  
    The housing is being affirmatively marketed and nondiscriminatory treatment for  
    all applicants and occupants is assured.  
  
    8) Project a Good Neighbor  
    The housing project is a good neighbor that is measured by good maintenance and  
    responsiveness to neighborhood concerns and complaints.  
  
    9) Programs Serve a Variety of People  
    Collectively, the housing funded by City of Seattle programs is serving the  
    variety of low-income households, ethnic groups, and persons with special needs  
    which have been identified as in need of multifamily housing assistance.  
  
    10)  Operations and Maintenance Subsidy  
    For projects in receipt of operations and maintenance subsidy, eligible  
    households are utilizing the subsidy, and the need for the subsidy is documented  
    on an annual basis.  
  
    19. AFFIRMATIVE MARKETING  
  
    Both nonprofit and for-profit borrowers receiving Levy program loan assistance  
    will be required to affirmatively market vacant units.  Borrowers must use  
    marketing methods designed to reach persons from all segments of the community,  
    including minorities, persons of color and persons with disabilities.  In  
    addition, owners are strongly encouraged to inform providers of emergency  
    shelters and transitional housing about their projects and to promote access to  
    households ready to move into permanent housing.  Owners will be required to  
    maintain records of their affirmative marketing efforts and to report annually  
    to OH on those efforts.  
  
    Borrowers of funding for transitional housing will be required to develop  
    processes to assure that homeless individuals or families coming out of  
    emergency shelters have equal access to transitional housing projects.  
  
    2002 Housing Levy A & F PLAN 2003-2004  
  
    HOMEOWNERSHIP  
    Home Buyer Assistance  
  
                           Total:  2003-2009         2003-2004  
    Program Funding:       $7,811,000                $2,231,714  
    Unit Goal:             326 Home Purchasers       93 Home Purchasers  
  
    The purpose of the Home Buyer Assistance Program is to assist low-income first-  
    time home buyers to purchase a home in the City of Seattle.  A total of $7.8  
    million of Levy funding is allocated for the Home Buyer Assistance Program, not  
    including administration. A goal has been established of assisting 326 low-  
    income households to become homeowners through participation in this program.  
    Home purchase assistance will be provided through one or more revolving loan  
    funds, and new loans will be made as loans are repaid.  Preference will be given  
    to borrowers who live in Seattle or with a least one person employed within the  
    City of Seattle.  
  
    A.  PROGRAM OBJECTIVES  
  
    The following general program objectives will guide the implementation of the  
    Home Buyer Assistance Program:  
  
    * Provide home purchase assistance to eligible borrowers to help them become  
    homeowners in Seattle.  
  
    * Help maintain and expand the affordable housing capacity in the City,  
    particularly within economically distressed communities, by supporting the  
    development of new housing and the renovation of vacant or deteriorated housing.  
  
    * Promote homeownership in Seattle, particularly for low-income households and  
    people of color.  
  
    * Aggressively pursue other sources of homebuyer assistance funds (State Housing  
    Trust Fund, etc.) to leverage the available levy dollars with a goal of  
    achieving a $2 to $1 ratio of City funds to non-City funds provided for  
    homeownership.  
  
    * Give priority to projects or programs that bring highest leverage to the Levy  
    funding with a goal of achieving a $2 to $1 ratio of City funds to non-City  
    funds. All program participants (banks, non-profits, borrowers) should  
    contribute in order to participate; e.g., loan or development discounts, fee  
    waivers, other downpayment assistance funds for banks; a proven  
    lending/administrative track record for nonprofit organizations; adequate cash  
    savings for borrowers, etc.  
  
    * Use existing service delivery systems for lending activities.  
  
    * Require borrowers to complete pre-purchase home buyer education program  
    conducted by a trainer certified by the Washington State Housing Finance  
    Commission, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Neighborhood  
    Reinvestment Full-Cycle Lending, or other education program for first-time  
    buyers approved by the Office of Housing.   OH will conduct periodic reviews in  
    cooperation with other funders, nonprofit counseling agencies and lenders to  
    determine if changes in the education requirement are needed.  
  
    * Support pre-purchase and post-purchase counseling through qualified nonprofit  
    counseling agencies where necessary, and encourage referrals through a  
    clearinghouse for matching the pre-purchase and post-purchase educational needs  
    of potential borrowers with available training programs.  
  
    * Prepare an annual financial report including information such as:  
    -    number of loans approved,  
    -    value of loans approved,  
    -    number of loans in portfolio,  
    -    value of loans in portfolio,  
    -    delinquency rate for loans in portfolio,  
    -    repayment terms and projected loan repayments  
    -    leveraging of other funds,  
    -    levels of activity of participating agencies and/or financial institutions,  
    -    number of homes sold to new owners.  
  
    * Continue working on program development activities for the expansion of the  
    program, including:  
    -    leveraging additional public and private funding,  
    - coordinating with housing repair, weatherization and other community  
    revitalization efforts,  
    - exploring opportunities for program models, such as land trusts, coops, lease-  
    purchase, etc., using both levy and other sources of funding that may become  
    available.  
  
    * Prepare an annual program performance report providing information such as any  
    additional fund sources identified for the home buyer assistance program, and  
    the community development impacts in economically distressed areas.  
  
    B.  PROGRAM  POLICIES  
  
    1. FUNDING ALLOCATION  POLICY AND GEOGRAPHIC FOCUS  
  
    * At least half of program funding will assist borrowers with incomes at or  
    below 60% of median income; all program funding must be used to assist borrowers  
    with incomes at or below 80% of median income.  
  
    * Levy funds will be used primarily in economically distressed communities.  
    These areas are shown on the maps attached as Attachment A. At least 75% of  
    funds will assist borrowers purchasing homes in these areas.  Up to 25% of funds  
    are available city-wide, including economically distressed communities.  These  
    areas shall be reviewed in the Fall of 2003; changes may be made to the maps at  
    that time.  
  
    2. ELIGIBLE USE OF FUNDS  
  
    * Levy funds will be used only for downpayment and closing cost assistance  
    and/or interest rate write down for eligible buyers.  
  
    * All types of units are eligible for purchase, including single family  
    residences, condominiums, limited equity cooperatives, co-housing, land trusts  
    and homes on leased land.  
  
    * The maximum home purchase price is the same as the FHA mortgage limit, as  
    adjusted annually.  
  
    * Potential borrowers must purchase a home in Seattle as their principal  
    residence.  Investment properties will not be allowed under this program.  Homes  
    with an accessory dwelling unit are eligible, provided that the borrower is an  
    owner-occupant of the home.  A lease-to-own contract may be considered a  
    purchase.  
  
    * Borrowers may purchase any type of residential property, whether currently  
    owner or renter occupied or vacant.  If tenants are displaced as a result of  
    sale to an owner-occupant under this program, tenant relocation assistance, if  
    any, will not be paid out of levy funds.  
  
    3. HOME BUYER ELIGIBILITY  
  
    * Potential borrowers must have a household income at or below 80% of median  
    income, adjusted for household size.  
  
    * Potential borrowers must be first-time home buyers defined as: any individual  
    who has not owned a home during the past three-years except that a) any  
    individual who is a displaced homemaker may not be excluded because that  
    individual, while a homemaker, previously owned a home with his or her former  
    spouse or partner; and b) any individual who is a single parent or guardian of a  
    minor child may not be excluded because that individual previously owned a home  
    with his or her  spouse or partner.  
  
    * Potential borrowers must successfully complete a pre-purchase homebuyer  
    education program approved by OH.  
  
    * Potential borrowers must be able to financially qualify for a first mortgage  
    approved by OH.  
  
    * Income definitions will be based on those developed by OH for single family  
    housing programs.  
  
    4. LENDING GUIDELINES  
  
    * Home buyer assistance will be limited to the amount needed for each borrower,  
    providing gap financing for low-income borrowers unable to qualify for  
    sufficient private financing to purchase an affordable home.  
  
    * Borrowers may receive home purchase assistance up to a maximum of $45,000,  
    including both Levy funds and other City-administered funds. Home purchase  
    assistance means all such assistance, including loans to homebuyers; loans to  
    developers or prior owners assumed by, or otherwise passed through to,  
    homebuyers; and interest rate buy downs.  Assistance for any improvements, if  
    committed or provided in connection with a home purchase, is considered to be  
    assistance for the purchase, except for assistance provided to a nonprofit  
    developer for development costs associated with a land trust project.  
  
    * In order that single-source downpayment assistance may be provided for the  
    convenience of borrowers, in lieu of loans from both Levy funds and non-City  
    sources to the same borrower, OH may allow a higher amount of City-funded home  
    purchase assistance, not to exceed $70,000, for a borrower that receives a loan  
    made as part of a project or lending program for which a developer or nonprofit  
    lending agency has obtained commitments of non-City home buyer subsidy funds,  
    only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:  
    (1) Non-City subsidy funds provided to such project or program must be used for  
    deferred down payment assistance loans or other assistance that increases the  
    ability of low-income households to purchase a home.  
    (2) The average amount of City-administered home purchase assistance for all  
    low-income home buyers participating in the project or lending program,  
    including buyers who do not receive any City-administered funds, may not exceed  
    $45,000.  
  
    The City's maximum home purchase assistance amount shall remain at $45,000 in  
    all other instances.  
  
    * Home buyer assistance will be structured with repayment obligations, using a  
    promissory note and deed of trust approved by the Office of Housing.  
  
    * Loans will generally be 30-year amortizing loans, with payments deferred for  
    the first 5 to 8 years. All loans will require anti-windfall protections such as  
    shared appreciation, resale restrictions, right of first refusal and  other  
    measures; shared appreciation provisions may be reduced and/or eliminated over  
    time.  Loan repayment terms shall specify the interest rate, which generally  
    shall not exceed 3% simple interest; loan term; period of payment deferral; and  
    any contingent interest or share of appreciation.  
  
    * Borrowers must provide a minimum of $2,500 or 2.0 % of the purchase price,  
    whichever is greater, of their own funds toward the home purchase to match the  
    levy down-payment assistance funds.  Borrowers may receive gifts of funds  
    towards their portion of the down payment; however, gifts must not exceed 25% of  
    the borrower's total downpayment requirement.  
  
    * Borrowers may use proceeds from the sale of assets towards their downpayment  
    requirement; e.g., selling a car, cashing in retirement accounts, etc. Sources  
    of cash must be verified.  
  
    * The terms of each loan made to a home buyer shall provide that the entire  
    balance, plus share of appreciation, if any, is due upon sale or refinance of  
    the home, to the extent permitted by applicable law.  Loan terms may permit  
    assumption of the loan by another eligible borrower in lieu of repayment.  
  
    * Borrowers may use any first mortgage product approved by OH, including FHA and  
    Fannie Mae products, and portfolio loans.  FHA 203(k) purchase-rehabilitation  
    loans are also eligible, provided the rehabilitation amount exceeds $5,000.  
  
    * OH may establish a loan committee to review loan exceptions; a system to track  
    the performance of loans shall also be established.  
  
    * OH will have the authority to revise the maximum loan amount ($45,000) by up  
    to $10,000 for the downpayment assistance program, if increases in interest  
    rates or sales prices, or lack of other homebuyer subsidies, create difficulty  
    in qualifying low income households as homebuyers in Seattle. The Director of  
    the Office of Housing must provide five working days notice to the Mayor and  
    City Council if the loan amount is to be increased.  The final decision of the  
    OH Director will be made with responses from the Mayor and City Council taken  
    into account.  Council approval is required if the OH Director wants to increase  
    the maximum loan amount by more than $10,000.  
  
    5.  ALLOCATION OF FUNDS  
  
    * OH will issue a general Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) for home buyer  
    assistance funds.  The NOFA will describe when applications may be submitted and  
    outline application requirements.  Applications may be submitted by a nonprofit  
    or for-profit developer, lender, or other organization requesting an allocation  
    of funds for eligible low-income homebuyers to be assisted through a development  
    project or lending program.  
  
    * New applicants are strongly encouraged to attend a pre-application conference  
    with OH staff to discuss program requirements and project feasibility.  
  
    * OH staff will review proposals based on criteria including financial  
    feasibility, organizational capacity, leverage of other fund sources and  
    consistency with levy policies.  
  
    * Funding awards shall be approved by the OH Director.  Funding awards are  
    preliminary, and may be contingent on commitment of other home buyer assistance  
    subsidy funds or other funding conditions.  
  
    * Upon evidence that any funding conditions have been met, OH will enter a  
    Letter of Agreement (LOA) with the developer or nonprofit lending agency.  The  
    LOA will reserve home buyer assistance funding for the project or program for up  
    to two years.  The LOA will establish the documentation required for each home  
    purchase transaction, including buyer information, loan terms, form of loan  
    documents, promissory notes and deeds of trust required for city assistance.  
  
    * OH will process purchase assistance requests for each low-income buyer at the  
    time that the buyer is ready to purchase a home.  OH will review documentation  
    to determine borrower eligibility and consistency with levy policies and program  
    guidelines.  
  
    2002 Housing Levy A & F PLAN 2003-2004  
    NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSING OPPORTUNITY PROGRAM (NHOP)  
  
                         Total:  2003-2009          2003-2004  
    Program Funding:     $7,214,000                 $2,061,143  
    Unit Goal:           196 Units                  56 Units  
  
    A.  PROGRAM OBJECTIVES  
  
    The NHOP is a new program within the 2002 Housing Levy.  Funding will be  
    available for rental housing, and may be combined with other City funding, as  
    further described in the Program Policies section below.  
  
    During 2003-2004, OH will proactively seek to fund units/projects with NHOP  
    funding meeting the following objectives:  
  
    * Focus funding primarily within economically distressed communities (see  
    Geographic Focus section below).  
  
    * Seek projects that have a catalytic effects in revitalizing economically  
    distressed community areas.  Specific criteria are listed in the Program  
    Policies section below.  
  
    * Encourage development of projects in historically distressed community areas  
    (Central Area, Southeast Seattle, and the Delridge Valley area of Southwest  
    Seattle).  
  
    B.  PROGRAM POLICIES  
  
    Rental Preservation and Production Program policies will generally guide NHOP  
    funding, except as noted below.  
  
    1. GEOGRAPHIC FOCUS:  
  
    Ordinance 120823 directs NHOP funding primarily to "economically distressed  
    communities."   The maps attached as Attachment A show "economically distressed  
    communities". These areas will be reviewed in the Fall of 2003; changes may be  
    made to the maps at that time.  
    The AHFP says NHOP funding shall be focused primarily on economically distressed  
    communities, to be defined in the A and F Plan.  The clear intent of the program  
    is to use funding for projects that  help revitalize particular areas shown on  
    the maps; however, projects elsewhere in the City may also be eligible if  they  
    meet some combination of criteria listed in the Project Selection section below.  
  
    The term "primarily" shall be defined as follows:  
  
    * At least 75% of program funding shall be used within target areas shown on the  
    maps in Attachment A;  
  
    * Up to 25% of program funding may be used anywhere in the City, including  
    within target areas, provided projects meet some combination of criteria listed  
    in the Project Selection section below.  
  
    Funding must meet these percentage allowances over the 2 year, 2003-2004,  
    period.  
  
    2.  FUNDING ALLOCATION POLICY  
  
    NHOP funds are subject to the following  policy:  
  
    * At least 25% of program funding shall be used for units serving people with  
    incomes at or below 30% of median;  
  
    * All program funding must  be used for units serving people with incomes at or  
    below 80% of median.  
  
    The program is also subject to a City Rental  Affordability Policy  found in the  
    City's Consolidated Plan.  
  
    3.  PROJECT SELECTION  
  
    To be funded, projects must meet some combination of the following criteria:  
  
    * Mixed-use and/or mixed-income projects that support key community-identified  
    development goals or revitalization strategies (eg. Neighborhood Plan project or  
    program);  
  
    * Project achieves multiple strategic objectives in support of community  
    development and project can demonstrate community support due to project support  
    of community objectives (e.g. Neighborhood Plan project or program);  
  
    * Project is of a size and scale to make a significant community impact;  
    Project by itself, or as part of larger effort, is catalyst for additional  
    desired development;  
  
    * Project helps mitigate impacts of gentrification, for example, helping to  
    maintain a variety of housing types and prices in a community;  
  
    * Project fills gap in housing continuum and thereby helps create or maintain  
    diversity of housing opportunity;  
  
    * Project utilizes innovative design and architecture, preserves historic or  
    landmark buildings, promotes transit-oriented development, and/or deals with  
    blight and neglect.  
  
    4. COMBINING NHOP FUNDING WITH OTHER CITY FUNDS  
  
    NHOP funding may be used in combination with other City funding, subject to  
    overall limitations on amounts of City funding permitted per project outlined in  
    the Rental Preservation and Production Program Policies section.  
  
    5. PROJECT UNIT MIX  
  
    Projects funded through this program may include mixed-use and mixed-income  
    developments, provided that the mix of units in an individual project must  
    include a range of very low- and low-income housing units; and that the Levy  
    funds shall be used only for the portion of the project financing that is  
    allocable to the units that will serve income-eligible households.  
  
    2002 Housing Levy A & F PLAN 2003-2004  
    RENTAL ASSISTANCE  
  
                          Total:  2003-2009          2003-2004  
    Program Funding:      $2,842,000                 $812,000  
    Households Served:    3,500                         1,000  
  
    Rental assistance is one of the program areas covered by Seattle's 2002 Low-  
    Income Housing Levy. Rental assistance is a cash subsidy that allows a low-  
    income individual or household to pay rent.  Rental assistance is usually paid  
    directly to a private landlord through a public agency, such as the Seattle  
    Housing Authority, or through a community-based, non-profit organization.  
    Rental assistance is often supported with case management or other supportive  
    services to help the tenant remain stable.  
  
    The City of Seattle has provided rental assistance since 1993 to help families  
    who are transitioning out of homelessness as well as those who are in imminent  
    danger of losing their housing due to eviction.  
  
    As of the end of 2002, the City operated three major rental assistance programs.  
    These programs were funded from a combination of Federal HOME dollars, Federal  
    Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds, and City General Fund.  
    Beginning in 2003, the General Fund component of the City's rental assistance  
    program will be funded primarily by the Housing Levy.  This transition in  
    funding sources has allowed the City to review and evaluate its rental  
    assistance programs and to design a new mix of programs that will leverage other  
    program opportunities and funding sources.  
  
    A.  PROGRAM OBJECTIVES  
  
    The following general program objectives guide the rental assistance programs:  
  
    * Serve those in greatest need.  To help those least able to afford housing in  
    Seattle, the City's rental assistance programs will serve households and  
    individuals with incomes at 50% of the area median income or below.  
  
    * Structure assistance so that it leads to long-term, measurable outcomes.  Link  
    cash rent subsidies to other forms of assistance such as case management to help  
    recipients remain stable in their housing and follow up at the six-month mark to  
    verify that they are still housed.  
  
    * Effectively serve ethnically, culturally, and geographically diverse  
    households by forming partnerships with community-based agencies.  
  
    * Leverage other resources to supplement City funds. The United Way, Rental  
    Housing Association of Puget Sound, Mutual Interest, and Seattle Housing  
    Authority will all be sought as program partners. In addition, the City will  
    seek ways to leverage Federal and other fund sources to supplement its own funds  
    for rental assistance.  
  
    * Link with private-sector landlords, in recognition of the fact that most of  
    the people served by the City's rental assistance program will be tenants in  
    private-market housing.  The City will seek to link with United Way's Housing  
    Ready program, which is a partnership among the United Way, Rental Housing  
    Association of Puget Sound, and Mutual Interest, and which provides training to  
    help low-income tenants secure and keep private-market housing.  
  
    In 2003, $400,000 in Levy funds will be linked with Federal HOME and other City  
    funds to provide approximately $850,000 for rental assistance. These rental  
    assistance funds will support two programs:  
  
    * The Rental Stabilization Program will provide six- to eighteen-month rent  
    subsidies to very low-income households and individuals transitioning out of  
    homelessness as well as those in  danger of eviction. The program will leverage  
    Federal HOME funds by providing case management services to help tenants remain  
    stable in their housing and to address the many special needs of those who have  
    been or are at risk of becoming homeless. Administration of this program will be  
    contracted out to a community-based, non-profit organization through a  
    competitive process managed by the City's Human Services Department. The Rental  
    Stabilization Program will serve between 75 and 100 persons a year. The program  
    will contact participants six months after they leave the program to determine  
    whether they have been able to remain housed and stable. The program will work  
    with the Seattle Housing Authority to attempt to secure long-term Section 8 rent  
    vouchers for program participants who will not be able to remain housed without  
    an ongoing subsidy.  
  
    * The Emergency Rental Assistance Program, will be administered jointly by the  
    City's Human Services Department and the United Way of King County.  Assistance  
    will be disbursed  through pre-qualified community-based agencies to low-income  
    households in need of rental assistance of three months or less.  The City will  
    contract with United Way to allocate rental assistance funds to nonprofit  
    agencies. United Way will tie the program to its larger Housing Ready tenant  
    training effort that it is organizing in partnership with the Rental Housing  
    Association of Puget Sound and Mutual Interest. Emergency Rental Assistance  
    Program subsidies will be made through community-based agencies as a supplement  
    to their existing case management and other human services programs, leveraging  
    those services with additional help for households in need. The Emergency Rental  
    Assistance Program will serve approximately 400 persons a year. The program will  
    contact participants six months after they receive assistance to determine  
    whether they have been able to remain housed and stable.  
  
    B.  PROGRAM POLICIES  
  
    The rental assistance programs will be guided by the following policies:  
  
    * Only Seattle households and individuals with incomes at 50% of the area median  
    income or below will be eligible to apply for funds.  
  
    * Levy funds will be used to pay for case management services  for participants  
    in the Rental Stabilization Program to enable the City to leverage Federal HOME  
    funds and other resources to assist these low-income tenants to remain housed  
    and stable.  
  
    * Tenant success in both programs will be evaluated by contacting programs  
    participants after six months to determine whether they have been able to remain  
    housed and stable.  
  
    2002 Housing Levy A & F PLAN 2003-2004  
  
    OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE  
  
                                               Total:  2003-2009        2003-2004  
    Program Funding:                           $7,765,000               $2,218,572  
    Anticipated number of units approved  
    for funding:                                       154                     44  
  
    A.  PROGRAM OBJECTIVES  
  
    The Affordable Housing Financing Plan ("AHFP") for the 2002 Housing Levy passed  
    by Seattle voters included $7,800,000 for the Operating and Maintenance (O and  
    M) Program, assuming maximum authorized revenues and subject to any  
    reallocations by ordinance.  In addition, the first $2 million in interest  
    earned on all 2002 levy funds will be directed for use in the O and M Program.  
    The program was included in the Affordable Housing Financing Plan so that a  
    portion of the Rental Preservation and Production Program housing would be  
    affordable to a broader range of extremely low-income households (households  
    with incomes at or below 30 percent of median income) than would be possible  
    without such subsidy.  
  
    The O and M Program builds upon the success of the O and M programs in the 1986  
    and 1995 Housing levies. The program purpose is to provide operating support, or  
    contingent commitments of operating support necessary to secure adequate  
    financing, for housing affordable to households with incomes at or below 30% of  
    the median income. Funds will be used to fill the gap between eligible operating  
    and enhanced property management costs and project income.  
  
    Specific eligible operating and enhanced property management costs include:  
    * project operations and maintenance  
    * utilities  
    * property taxes  
    * operating and maintenance reserves  
    * project staffing and administrative costs  
    * contract services related to project support  
  
    PROGRAM FOCUS --- 2002 Levy Funding  
  
    The Office of Housing will be seeking funding proposals for multi-unit housing  
    upon the City Council's approval of the A & F Plan.  It is estimated that  
    approximately $100,000 of O and M subsidy will be available in 2003-2004 to  
    organizations providing low-income housing.  Average subsidy amounts will be  
    based on borrower demonstration of need and costs for comparable projects.  
    Priority will be given during the project review process to projects that secure  
    significant non-city operating or service funds and that will serve homeless or  
    other special needs populations that need supportive services to maintain safe,  
    stable living arrangements.  
  
    COORDINATION WITH SEATTLE HOUSING AUTHORITY ON SECTION 8 SUBSIDIES  
  
    The Seattle Housing Authority Board of Commissioners adopted a resolution in  
    June 2002 committing, subject to HUD regulations and requirements, to allocate  
    500 project-based Section 8 vouchers to levy-funded projects serving under  
    extremely low-income households.  The Section 8 funds will be an important  
    resource for the success of the 2002 levy in meeting the production goals for  
    units serving persons under 30% of median income.  OH shall work with SHA to  
    develop close coordination of the application, review and timing for allocation  
    of the Section 8 vouchers with the levy Rental Preservation and Production  
    Program.  In addition, City Council resolution 30481, requests that the SHA  
    Commission approve policies to be provided to City Council by June 2003  
    elaborating on the parameters for the use of Section 8, including addressing the  
    SHA plan for dealing with reductions in federal Section 8 appropriation  
    authority or a rule change that would affect SHA's ability to provide and renew  
    these vouchers.  
  
    Because Section 8 is subject to annual or periodic Congressional appropriations,  
    the OH role in administering the O and M program shall include biennial reviews  
    of the availability and renewal trends for Section 8 contracts in levy-funded  
    units.  This review shall be done and presented as a report to the Levy  
    Oversight Committee as part of the update of the Levy Administration and  
    Financial Plan every two years.  As part of that report, OH shall recommend  
    whether a need exists to hold part of the O and M funds as a reserve or to use O  
    and M funds to provide short-term transition support to offset an unanticipated  
    reduction in Section 8 assistance or other operating/support subsidy in levy-  
    funded units.  
  
    B.  PROGRAM POLICIES --- 2002, 1995 and 1986 Levy Funding  
  
    These policies shall apply to all initial commitments of O & M funds from the  
    2002 Housing Levy.  Policies that apply to annual agreements or renewals shall  
    apply to  O&M subsidy agreements made under any of the housing levies for years  
    beginning after December 31, 2003, except to the extent that there is a binding  
    contract in effect providing that the City will renew an agreement on specific  
    terms established when prior policies were in effect. In such cases, renewals  
    shall be based upon the terms of the existing agreement, except to the extent  
    that OH and the project borrower shall agree to substitute different terms  
    consistent with these policies.  
  
    1. ELIGIBLE PROJECTS  
  
    Projects developed through each Levy that provide housing to extremely low-  
    income households (at or below 30 percent of median income) may be eligible to  
    receive O and M subsidy from that Levy. Private owners and developers as well as  
    all types of nonprofit agencies, including Public Development Authorities and  
    public agencies, except for Seattle Housing Authority, are eligible to  
    participate in the program.  
  
    2. ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS  
  
    To be eligible for O and M subsidy, units must be occupied by extremely low-  
    income households.  
  
    3. FUNDING LIMITS AND MATCH TARGET FOR INITIAL COMMITMENTS  
  
    In order to provide opportunities for as many projects as possible to be funded,  
    maximum funding of $2,500 per unit per year, for the initial full year of  
    occupancy will be used in the 2003-2004 period.  Borrowers will generally be  
    required to demonstrate evidence of reasonable availability of a 100% match of  
    project income for the O and M subsidy, from sources other than tenant rent  
    payments.  This match can be comprised of financial support, in-kind assistance,  
    or the reasonable value of services provided by a third party entity on site.  
    Projects receiving O and M subsidy will be eligible for annual increases,  
    subject to OH approval and availability of funds in the O and M program, to  
    cover increases in eligible costs or the annual funding gap. The OH Director may  
    approve raising the per unit limit for a project if he or she determines that it  
    is necessary to make a project viable for a population with high service needs  
    and the project would leverage above-average support from non-city sources.  In  
    order to meet the overall production goals established for the levy, the average  
    initial O and M amount per unit per year for the 2003-2004 period is expected to  
    be $2,300 or less.  
  
    4. DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
  
    Projects must provide quality housing with a minimum life of 50 years or more,  
    assuming ongoing capitalization and use of replacement reserves.  Rehabilitation  
    should minimize ongoing maintenance and utility costs. Phased rehabilitation is  
    allowable if fund sources can be identified for completion and there is a  
    funding source for the work other than the O&M funds. All buildings are required  
    to meet applicable zoning and building codes.  
  
    5. RENTS  
  
    Eligible households will generally be expected to pay 35% of adjusted monthly  
    gross income for rent and any tenant-paid utilities associated with a project.  
    Borrowers may request alternate rent schedules to meet unique program  
    objectives; specific requirements will be outlined in subsidy contracts.  
    Occupancy rates are expected to be maintained at least at 95% or a rate  
    determined optimal for the specific project depending on the management plan.  
    Annual project budgets should reflect estimated rental income based on program  
    design unique to each project.  
  
    If a project uses federal funds and the borrower commits to a different rent  
    limit or formula in order to avoid economic displacement of existing tenants,  
    then the 35% figure may be reduced as necessary to comply with that commitment.  
    Rents in projects that receive funds under the McKinney Act are determined in  
    accordance with section 3 (a) of the 1937 Housing Act (i.e. 30 percent of income  
    for rent and utilities).  Income is to be reviewed annually and rental payments  
    may be adjusted by the borrower.  If a household's income changes prior to the  
    annual review (due to loss of a job, addition of a household member, death of a  
    household member, etc.), rents can be adjusted.  
  
    Some households may have little or no income when first moving into levy  
    housing. In these instances, the minimum tenant share of income paid for rent  
    mentioned above may be waived or reduced until the household qualifies for  
    public assistance or becomes employed.  Borrowers must include any plan to  
    temporarily reduce the share of tenant income required for rent in their  
    application for O and M support, and must demonstrate that the housing units  
    will be financially viable with the anticipated rent charged.  
  
    6. ADJUSTMENTS TO GROSS INCOME  
  
    When determining rents, two adjustments to a household's gross income may be  
    made. For a household having medical expenses in excess of three percent of its  
    annual income, gross income can be reduced by the amount in excess of three  
    percent. These expenses can also include non-medical expenses for the assistance  
    and care of household members who are handicapped or disabled.  
  
    Another allowable deduction is the amount for child care (for children under 13  
    years of age) when it is necessary for the employment of an adult household  
    member, or for his or her further education. The estimated cost of care can be  
    deducted from gross income. The amount must reflect the reasonable cost of care  
    and cannot exceed household income.  
  
    7. NON-SUBSIDIZED UNITS  
  
    When a household subsidized by the program has an increase in income that  
    results in a household income greater than 30 percent of the area median income,  
    the unit is no longer eligible to receive subsidy. At the annual review or at  
    such earlier time after the borrower becomes aware of the increase in income as  
    may be specified by OH, the O and M subsidy would be discontinued. The household  
    may have an adjustment to its rent depending on the terms of the City Regulatory  
    Agreement or conditions of other funding.  
  
    8. TENANT-PAID UTILITIES  
  
    When utilities are separately metered and paid by tenants, borrowers are  
    required to use the utility allowance standard established by Seattle Housing  
    Authority or annually calculate the estimated cost for tenant-paid utilities.  
    If using a standard other than SHA's, the estimate is to reflect a reasonable  
    usage amount for each type of unit.  The annual estimated cost is to be divided  
    by 12 to determine a monthly average amount.  This amount would be subtracted  
    from the total tenant payment to produce the monthly rent the tenant would pay  
    the borrower. In this situation, tenants would be responsible for paying their  
    utilities directly, regardless of the amount.  
  
    9. MANAGEMENT PLAN  
  
    A management plan is required for each application for O&M subsidy.  The plan  
    must be consistent with the intent of the Levy and adhere to local laws and  
    regulations.  The elements of the plan are listed in  Rental Preservation and  
    Production Program portion of this Plan.  
  
    10. MAINTENANCE PLAN  
  
    Each project must have a maintenance plan that describes how the building will  
    be maintained.  It should describe the acceptable standard for each room (living  
    room, bathroom, kitchen, bedroom), common space (hallways, stairs, lobby),  
    building systems (heating and plumbing), and building exterior (roof, walls,  
    foundation, chimney).  For example, maintenance standards for interior stairs  
    would include that the stairs have lights that work, and the railings are safe  
    and in good condition.  It should also include a schedule for inspections and  
    both exterior and interior maintenance of the building (fire safety,  
    roof/gutter, HVAC maintenance etc.).  The plan must also describe how long-term  
    maintenance will be accomplished.  
  
    11. OPERATING BUDGET AND USE OF FUNDS  
  
    An operating budget in the required format must be submitted with each initial  
    application for subsidy.  For the annual review, an actual financial statement  
    for the previous year and a proposed operating budget for the following year  
    will be required.  The budget must be based on the City's fiscal year, which  
    begins January 1, unless the recipient receives written permission from OH to  
    use a different fiscal year.  
  
    Subsidy funds under the 1986 Levy must be used for "operating and maintenance  
    costs" as defined in Section 8.C of Ordinance 112904.  
  
    Eligible uses of 1995 and 2002 Levy O&M subsidy include costs for:  
  
    * On-site salaries and benefits including all personnel costs directly  
    associated with operating the building.  
  
    * Off-site management including overhead and personnel costs that are necessary  
    to operate the building but are not located at the site.  
  
    * The cost of a financial audit.  An audit will be required for each project  
    with a program subsidy of $25,000 or more, and from borrowers receiving a total  
    of $50,000 in total O&M subsidies for multiple projects. The audit must be  
    obtained by the borrower.  The audit must verify that the program funds  
    subsidized eligible expenses and that actual expenditures correspond to the  
    project's approved operating budget.  Projects with a program subsidy of less  
    than $35,000 and total project revenue of less than $100,000 are not required to  
    submit an audit, but are required to submit a detailed year end financial  
    statement.  
  
    * Administrative expenses such as legal, advertising and marketing, insurance,  
    collection loss, property and personal property taxes.  Ongoing maintenance  
    expenses such as materials, janitorial supplies, maintenance contracts, and  
    security.  
  
    * Major repairs to and replacement of building systems and components such as  
    replacing appliances and fixtures, major repairs to plumbing, electrical and  
    heating systems, re-roofing buildings.  
  
    * Project paid utilities  
  
    * Replacement Reserve additions, which are funds set aside monthly by borrowers  
    for future long-term repair and replacement needs.  The amount added to the  
    reserve will be based on OH loan document requirements and periodic Capital  
    Plans to be prepared by borrowers evaluating capital needs and the schedule for  
    required replacement reserve expenditures. O&M funds can be used to fund and  
    build reserves to a maximum set by the OH administrator, with disbursements from  
    reserves restricted to repairs, capital replacement, operating shortfalls or  
    other purposes approved by OH.  
  
    * Enhanced Property Management: Support service costs directly related to  
    managing the Levy-funded units, including, to the extent they are reasonably  
    necessary costs of operating the housing in light of the population the borrower  
    has committed to serve, costs of counseling, case management, or other on-site  
    resident assistance.  
  
    * Operating reserve additions deposited and budgeted each year to cover  
    unforeseen operating costs.  The annual deposit amount is normally to be 2.5  
    percent of all annual expenses except long-term replacement reserve items.  The  
    reserve will be allowed to accumulate until the amount is equal to 50 percent of  
    a year's budget for operating costs.  The operating reserve may also be used to  
    pay for work that cannot be entirely funded by the replacement reserve. As part  
    of the management plan, each borrower must provide their policy, including  
    procedures and eligible costs, for how operating reserve funds may be spent.  
    The requirements and limits on replacement and operating reserves may be  
    adjusted periodically, and/or for specific projects, by the Office of Housing  
    based on a review of the capital needs and operating risks of projects and of  
    other public funder standards.  
  
    The program will not subsidize debt service (including interest).  O and M  
    subsidies may be provided to a portion of units in a larger mixed-income project  
    which does have debt service, provided that all debt service costs are allocated  
    to units serving households above 30% of median or to units receiving Section 8  
    or other rental subsidy.  
  
    12. PROJECT SELECTION FOR INITIAL COMMITMENTS  
  
    In response to a Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA), borrowers will submit  
    proposals for program subsidy along with their application for capital funding.  
    Proposal requirements for the program will be included in the NOFA.  
  
    The project review process considers the following project characteristics:  
  
    * The reasonableness of the proposed operating budget;  
  
    * The amount of operating and supportive service funds leveraged by the project;  
  
    * The adequacy of the management plan for the proposed tenant population and  
    building, and the experience of the borrower in serving similar populations as  
    well as their general affordable housing development and management experience;  
  
    * The scope of rehabilitation and whether the work minimizes operating expenses;  
  
    * The adequacy of the maintenance plan in maintaining the building and  
    preventing long-term maintenance problems; and  
  
    * The commitment and reasonableness of support services, if necessary, for the  
    proposed tenant population.  
  
    13. SUBSIDY TERM  
  
    The Office of Housing will provide annual subsidy contracts for O and M support,  
    and may make commitments of funding available up to a maximum of twenty years  
    from the date of project completion, subject to availability of funding and to  
    annual reviews that may result in adjustments to subsidy amounts or  
    discontinuance of subsidy, in the discretion of OH.  For example, subsidies may  
    be reduced or discontinued if increasing revenues from other housing units,  
    commercial space, or alternative subsidy sources are available to a project, or  
    if insufficiency of currently available or projected resources requires OH to  
    prioritize among projects receiving subsidy.  
  
    Subsidy contracts may provide that if, during the term of commitment for O and M  
    subsidy,  the subsidy is discontinued or reduced, and if the borrower therefore  
    cannot meet operating expenses of the O&M units with rents affordable to  
    extremely low-income households, the borrower may rent the units to any very  
    low-income households who can pay rents sufficient to allow the borrower to  
    cover operating costs of the units, but not to exceed affordable rents.  The  
    borrower must prepare a plan acceptable to OH before it can do so.  The plan  
    must give preference to the lowest income households who can pay such rents.  
  
    14. ANNUAL REVIEWS  
  
    OH will conduct financial, management, operations, and maintenance reviews of  
    projects receiving subsidy each year.  OH will also review the project and  
    determine the subsidy amount for the following year.  
  
    For the annual review, the borrower must provide:  
  
    * An annual report per the terms of the OH loan agreement.  
  
    * An actual financial statement, and audit, if applicable, for the project  
    compared with the operating budget. The statement should include cumulative  
    balances for replacement and operating reserves.  
  
    * The existing tenant profile including rental amounts charged and tenant  
    income.  
  
    * Phased rehabilitation work planned for the next year, if any, and the source  
    of funds for the work.  
  
    * Major maintenance work planned for the next year, if any.  
  
    * Schedule for periodic completion of a capital needs assessment that includes a  
    life cycle cost analysis for the major building components and a 20 year  
    schedule of replacement reserve deposits and expected expenditures  
  
    * Examination of services outcomes and copies of service contracts upon request.  
  
    * An operating budget for the next year with the projected monthly rent  
    schedule.  
  
    * A narrative report explaining how the subsidy received in the prior year and  
    the subsidy requested for the next year will allow the borrower to meet its  
    commitment to serve extremely low-income households.  
  
    15. SUBSIDY PAYMENTS AND ADJUSTMENT  
  
    Subsidy will generally be paid to projects on a quarterly basis.  The amount and  
    the conditions for providing subsidy will be negotiated between OH and the  
    borrower, and established in an annual contract amendment.  The amount of  
    subsidy paid each quarter will depend on the operating budget and cumulatively  
    can not exceed the approved annual amount.  Borrowers will be required to  
    provide quarterly financial reports. Borrowers may request subsidy readjustment  
    at any time; however, except for unusual circumstances, OH will review just one  
    adjustment request per project annually.  
  
    Adjustments to the subsidy amounts prior to the annual review will only be made  
    when it is determined by OH to be reasonable due to unforeseen circumstances.  
    For example, if a borrower had tenants with incomes much lower than expected, an  
    adjustment to the subsidy amount may be made.  Likewise, if expenses such as  
    insurance or utilities take a sudden and dramatic jump, an adjustment to the  
    subsidy amount may be made, if in the judgment of OH, there are sufficient  
    uncommitted O and M funds to provide an increase.  
  
    A project which is showing a surplus may be required to make repayment to OH or  
    make additional contributions to its Operating and Maintenance Reserves, or if  
    those reserve balances are deemed adequate, its subsidy might be adjusted down  
    until the project's cash flow requires the full subsidy again.  
  
    If the need for additional subsidy is due to overestimating the rental income  
    schedule, then the borrower may be required to provide a new marketing plan and  
    rent-up schedule when requesting a subsidy adjustment.  
  
    2002 Housing Levy A & F PLAN 2003-2004  
  
    PROGRAM DEFINITIONS  
  
    In general, the following terms shall have the following meanings unless the  
    context otherwise clearly  suggests a different meaning:"Affordable rent" for  
    low-income tenants means annual rent not exceeding 30% of 80% of median income;  
    affordable rent for tenants with income not exceeding 60% of median income means  
    annual rent not exceeding 30% of 60% of median income; affordable rent for very  
    low-income tenants means an annual rent not exceeding 30% of 50% of median  
    income; and affordable rent for extremely low-income tenants means an annual  
    rent not exceeding 35% of 30% of median income.  
  
    * "Extremely low-income" means income not exceeding 30% of median income.  
  
    * "Income" means household income computed in conformity with requirements of  
    the federal HOME program, unless the OH Director shall permit another method of  
    computation for a particular project or class of projects.  
  
    * "Low-income" means income not exceeding 80% of median income.  
  
    * "Median income" means annual family median income for the Seattle-Bellevue-  
    Everett Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area, as published from time to time by  
    HUD, and as adjusted for household size according to the method used by HUD for  
    income limits in subsidized housing.  For purposes of rent limits, median income  
    generally is adjusted according to the presumed family size based on the number  
    of bedrooms in a unit, consistent with HUD rules for the HOME program.  
  
    * "Rent" means all amounts charged for the use or occupancy of the project  
    (whether or not denominated as rent or constituting rent under state law), plus  
    a utility allowance for heat, gas, electricity, water, sewer, and refuse  
    collection (to the extent such items are not paid for tenants by the owner).  
  
    * "Very low-income" means income not exceeding 50% of median income.  
  
    The OH Director may adopt further refinements or interpretations of the above  
    definitions, consistent with the intent of the Levy Ordinance and Affordable  
    Housing Financing Plan, and Consolidated Plan Citywide Housing Funding Policies.  
  
    2002 Housing Levy A & F PLAN 2003-2004  
    PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION  
  
    The AHFP includes a Summary of Levy Funding Allocation that splits total  
    anticipated Levy funding into program categories, including $4.258 million for  
    administration (approximately 5% of total funding).  This administrative funding  
    is intended to pay Office of Housing costs to administer 3 Levy programs (Rental  
    Preservation and Production, Homeownership, and Neighborhood Housing Opportunity  
    Program) and Human Services Department costs to administer the Rental Assistance  
    Program.  Administrative funding will be used as follows in 2003-2004:  
  
    * Rental Preservation and Production  
    - TOTAL funds for administration:  $3,229,604  
    - Portion of total to be used for administration in 2003-2004:  $922,744  
  
    * Homeownership  
    - TOTAL funds for administration:  $449,589  
    - Portion of total to be used for administration in 2003-2004:  $128,454  
  
    * Neighborhood Housing Opportunity Program  
    - TOTAL funds for administration:  $415,227  
    Portion of total to be used for administration in 2003-2004:  $118,636  
    * Rental Assistance  
    - TOTAL funds for administration:  $163,580  
    - Portion of total to be used for administration in 2003-2004:  $46,738  
  
    * Operating and Maintenance  
    - Funding for administration of the O and M program will come from that  
    program's interest earnings during 2003-2004.  
    - Total required for administration of O and M Programs from all three Housing  
    Levies in 2003-2004 is $240,000; funding for administration of the O and M  
    program will come from interest earnings from the 1986 Levy (33.3%), the 1995  
    Levy (33.3%), and the 2002 Levy (33.4%).  
  
    Attachment A, Housing Investment Areas,  
    Target Areas for NHOP & Homeownership Levy Programs  
  
    Indicator       Indicator                    Measure                                Data Source  
  
    Economic  
  
    1 (NHOP, HO,    Median household income        
    2               Poverty levels                11.8% of persons in poverty           2000 Census (block group)  
                    Persons in poverty           Citywide = 11.8% persons below  
                    Concentration of children    poverty level  
                    in poverty  
                    Concentration of elderly in  
                    poverty  
  
    3 (NHOP, HO,    Concentration of subsidized  > 20% subsidized                       OH Dispersion Database  
    MFTE)           housing                      Dispersion policy: no more than 30%    (block group)  
                                                 subsidized units in a block group  
  
    4 (NHOP, HO)    Homeownership rates            
    Market  
  
    5 (HO)          Median single-family and       
    6 (NHOP, MFTE)  Development activity           
    7               Apartment Vacancy Rates      > 7.8%                                 Dupre+Scott, October 2002  
                    Structures > 20 units        Citywide = 6.8% (Large apt.            & May 2002 (neighborhood)  
                    Structures 1-19 units        buildings)  
                                                 Citywide = 5.0% (Small apt. buildings  
                                                 & single family homes)  
  
    8               Market Rents                  20 units        Citywide = $888 (Large apartment       & May 2002 (neighborhood)  
                    Structures 1-19 units        buildings)  
                                                 Citywide = $998 (Small apartment  
                                                 buildings & single family homes)  
  
    9               Affordability of market      Affordable @  20 units, 1BR  
                    & 2BR  
                    Structures > 1-19 units, 1  
                    BR & 2-BR  
  
    Other  
  
    10              Condition of residential     High numbers of vacant buildings       DCLU Vacant Buildings  
                    structures                   High number of code citations issued   List, 10/02 (zip code)  
                    Vacant buildings                                                    DCLU Housing Violation  
                    Code violations                                                     Cases Map, 1/1/01-12/18/02  
  
    11              Crime Rates                  Total Part I Crimes considerably       SPD 2001 Annual Report  
                                                 above the median                       (census tract)  
    Attachment A - Economically Distressed Communities - Southwest Special Objectives Area Boundaries  
  
    Attachment A - Economically Distressed Communities - Southeast Special Objectives Area Boundaries  
  
    Central Area Special Objectives Area Boundaries  
  
    A map of the Central Area Special Objectives Areas is shown below.  The  
    Madison Street boundary of the Central Area SOA is drawn along the center of  
    Madison Street between Broadway and 12th Ave. and along the south property line  
    of properties located on the south side of Madison Street between 12th Ave. and  
     East Republican Street.  The west property line of the Central Area SOA is  
    drawn along the center of Broadway between Madison Ave. and East James St. and  
    between Alder and Fir Streets.  The western boundary between James Street and  
    Alder is drawn along the south property line of properties located on the east  
    side of Broadway.  
  
    If a lot, fronting on the south side of Madison between 12th and Republican  
    Streets or fronting on the east side of Broadway between Alder and First  
    Streets, is in common ownership with a contiguous lot or lots extending south of  
    Madison or east of Broadway, than all such lots shall be considered to be  
    outside the SOA boundary for purposes of proposed projects that incorporate all  
    such lots in a single plan of development.  Lots separated by a street shall not  
    be considered contiguous.  
    Attachment A - Economically Distressed Communities - Central Area Special Objectives Area Boundaries  
  
    Attachment A - Economically Distressed Communities - Downtown Special Objectives Area Boundaries  
  
    Version 6  
    Final amendment  
    t  
  
    EXHIBIT B  
  
    Amendments to the 2001-2004 Consolidated Plan, as amended by the 2003 Update  
  
    1. Homebuyer Assistance Policy (Page 60 of 2003 Update); language changes shown  
    below:  
  
    The City has had a Homebuyer Assistance program in place since 1997.  This  
    program provides down payment assistance loans to first time homeowners.  The  
    program is supported by HOME funds and 1995 and 2002 Housing Levy funds.  
  
    Policies Applicable to All City Homebuyer Assistance  
  
    The following policies apply to all assistance for the purchase of property for  
    home ownership when that assistance is either provided by the City (using any  
    fund source) or is provided by a public or nonprofit agency either using funds  
    lent or granted by the City, or using money or property that is subject to an  
    agreement with the City because it is derived from City funds or property (for  
    example, money in a revolving loan fund).  In this section "City Homebuyer  
    Assistance" means all such assistance, including loans to home buyers; loans to  
    developers or prior owners assumed by, or otherwise passed through to, home  
    buyers; and interest rate buy downs.  Assistance for any improvements, if  
    committed or provided in connection with a home purchase, is considered to be  
    assistance for the purchase.  
  
    The total amount of City Homebuyer Assistance for any household is limited to  
    $45,000, except for assistance provided to a non-profit developer for  
    development costs associated with a land trust project.  
  
    In order that a single-source of downpayment assistance may be provided for the  
    convenience of borrowers, in lieu of loans from both Levy funds and non-City  
    sources to the same borrower, OH may allow a higher amount of City Homebuyer  
    Assistance, not to exceed $70,000, for a borrower who receives a loan made as  
    part of a project or lending program for which a developer or nonprofit lending  
    agency has obtained commitments of non-City home buyer subsidy funds, only if  
    all of the following conditions are satisfied:  
  
    (1) Non-City subsidy funds provided to such project or program must be used for  
    deferred down payment assistance loans or other assistance that increases the  
    ability of low-income households to purchase a home.  
  
    (2) The average amount of City-administered home purchase assistance for all  
    low-income home buyers participating in the project or lending program,  
    including buyers who do not receive any City-administered funds, may not exceed  
    $45,000.  
  
    All program participants are required to complete a homebuyer education program  
    and be certified by the agency providing the education.  Potential borrowers  
    must be first-time homebuyers with incomes at or below 80% of median income and  
    be able to financially qualify for a first mortgage with a participating lender.  
    First time homebuyers are defined as "any individual who has not owned a home  
    during the three year period prior to the purchase of a home, except that a) any  
    individual who is a displaced homemaker may not be excluded because that  
    individual, while a homemaker, owned a home with his or her spouse or partner;  
    and b) any individual who is a parent or guardian of a minor child may not be  
    excluded because that individual previously owned a home with his or her former  
    spouse or former partner."  Priority will be given to borrowers who live in  
    Seattle, are public employees working in Seattle, or other households with at  
    least one person employed within the City of Seattle.  
  
    All loans will be secured with a deed of trust and promissory note.  Repayment  
    terms shall be subject to Office of Housing approval and shall specify an  
    interest rate which generally shall not exceed 3% simple interest, a loan term  
    which generally shall not exceed 25 30 years, and the period of deferred  
    payment.  All loans will require anti-windfall protections such as shared  
    appreciation, resale restrictions, right of first refusal and other measures;  
    such provisions may be reduced and/or eliminated over time.  All funds loaned  
    through this program will be recaptured and used to fund additional down payment  
    assistance loans to income eligible households. The Office of Housing has the  
    authority to revise the maximum loan amount ($45,000) by up to $10,000 for the  
    downpayment assistance program, if increases in interest rates or sales prices,  
    or lack of other homebuyer subsidies, create difficulty in qualifying low-income  
    households for homebuyers in Seattle.  The Director of the Office of Housing  
    must provide five (5) working days' notice to the Mayor and City Council if the  
    loan amount is to be increased.  The final decision of the OH Director will be  
    made with responses from the Mayor and City Council taken into account.  Council  
    approval is required if the OH Director wants to increase the maximum loan  
    amount by more than $10,000.  
  
    These policies apply and are effective for all awards of assistance directly  
    from the City to home buyers that are approved on and after the effective date  
    of the ordinance adopting these policies, and shall be incorporated in all  
    contracts and amendments made on and after that date under which any City  
    Homebuyer Assistance will be made available by or through another public or  
    nonprofit entity.  
  
    Policies Applicable only to 1995 Housing Levy Funds  
  
    The 1995 Levy supported loans are available only for homes purchased in the  
    Special Objective Areas as defined in this plan.  
  
    Policies Applicable only to 2002 Housing Levy Funds  
  
    The 2002 Levy Homeownership Program:  Home Buyer assistance funded through the  
    2002 Levy may be used for downpayment and closing cost assistance, and interest  
    rate buydowns.  Funds must be used in areas defined in the Administrative and  
    Financial Plan.  Additional eligibility limits apply to these funds, as follows:  
  
    * At least 50% of program funding shall be used to assist first time homebuyers  
    with incomes at or below 60% of median income;  
  
    * Up to 50% of program funding may be used to assist first time homebuyers with  
    incomes at or below 80% of median income.  
  
    2.  City Rental Affordability Policies (Pages 58-59 of 2003 Update); following  
    language to be added between last 2 paragraphs:  
  
    As an exception to the policies in (1) through (3) above, where an existing,  
    occupied project is to be acquired or rehabilitated with Levy or other eligible  
    OH funds targeted at households with incomes up to a percentage of median income  
    less than 80%, and some units subsidized with those funds are occupied by over-  
    income tenants with incomes up to 80% of median income, funds may be used for  
    units that will be brought into compliance with income and affordability rules  
    for the target income group within two years of the date of the loan agreement,  
    and in the meantime will have affordable rents for low-income tenants.  By the  
    end of the initial two-year period after the date of the loan agreement, over-  
    income tenants would need to be relocated or the Borrower would be in default  
    and required to return a prorata portion of the OH funding.  
    t  
