* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114483**   
**Ordinance Number: 121099**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to historic preservation, imposing controls upon the North East Library, a Landmark designated by the Landmarks Preservation Board under Chapter 25.12 of the Seattle Municipal Code, and adding it to the Table of Historical Landmarks contained in Chapter 25.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 24, 2003   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: Compton, Drago, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 1, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 1, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 3, 2003   
**Committee:** Neighborhood, Arts and Civil Rights   
**Sponsor:** LICATA   
  
**Index Terms:** LANDMARKS, LIBRARIES, BRYANT, RAVENNA  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114483.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114483  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to historic preservation, imposing controls upon  
    the North East Library, a Landmark designated by the Landmarks  
    Preservation Board under Chapter 25.12 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    and adding it to the Table of Historical Landmarks contained in  
    Chapter 25.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
    WHEREAS, the Landmarks Ordinance, Chapter 25.12 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code (SMC), establishes a procedure for the designation and  
    preservation of structures and areas having historical, cultural,  
    architectural, engineering or geographic importance; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Landmarks Preservation Board, after a public meeting on  
    December 6, 2000, voted to approve the nomination of the North East  
    Library at 6801 35th Avenue NE, in Seattle as a Landmark under SMC  
    Chapter 25.12; and  
  
    WHEREAS, after a public meeting on January 17, 2001, the Board voted  
    to approve the designation of the North East Library and the site as a  
    Landmark under SMC Chapter 25.12; and  
  
    WHEREAS, on April 4, 2001, the Board and the owners of the designated  
    property agreed to controls and incentives; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Board recommends to the City Council approval of controls  
    and incentives; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  DESIGNATION:  That the designation by the Landmarks  
    Preservation Board of the North East Library, and its site, described  
    as:  
  
    N 132 FT of the South 822 FT of that portion of the Southeast Quarter  
    of the Southeast Quarter of Section 4T 25 N, 2 4E WM lying West of  
    35th Avenue NE and East of the East Line of the strip of land conveyed  
    to the City of Seattle for alley by deed recorded in King Co. under  
    Auditor's file No. 3358323, records of said county, said alley being a  
    production of the alley in Block 1, Roosevelt Heights 2nd Addition  
    according to the plot thereof recorded in Volume 33 of Plats, page 37,  
    Records of King Co.  
  
    as a Landmark based upon satisfaction of the following standards of  
    SMC Section 25.12.350:  
  
    D.  It embodies the distinctive visible characteristics of an  
    architectural style, or period, or of a method of construction.  
  
    E.  It is an outstanding work of a designer or builder;  
  
    is hereby acknowledged.  
  
    Section 2.  CONTROLS:  The following controls are hereby imposed on  
    the features and characteristics of the North East Library and its  
    site, that were designated by the Board for preservation:  
  
    A.  CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL PROCESS  
  
    1.  A Certificate of Approval, issued by the City of Seattle's  
    Landmarks Preservation Board pursuant to Seattle Municipal Code,  
    25.12, must be obtained, or the time for denying a Certificate of  
    Approval application must have expired, before the owner may make  
    alterations or significant changes to:  
  
    The site, the exterior of the building, and the interior of the  
    building excluding floor coverings, movable furniture and book stacks.  
  
    2. A Certificate of Approval is not required for the following:  
  
    a. Any in-kind maintenance or repairs of the features listed in  
    subsection 1, and  
  
    b. The removal of existing partition walls of the staff/support area  
    that existed prior to April 4, 2001.  
  
    B.  ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW  
  
    1.    Administrative review and approval may be provided for the items  
    listed in subsection 3 according to the following procedures.  The  
    Owner shall submit to the City Historic Preservation Officer (CHPO) a  
    written request for these alterations, including applicable drawings  
    and/or specifications.  If the CHPO, upon examination of submitted  
    plans and specifications, determines that such alterations are  
    consistent with the purposes of SMC 25.12 the alterations shall be  
    approved without the need for any further action by the Board.  If the  
    CHPO disapproves such alterations, the Owner may submit revised  
    materials to the CHPO, or submit in accordance with the Certificate of  
    Approval process set forth in SMC 25.12.  
  
      2.  The CHPO shall submit his or her written decision on the Owner's  
    submittal to the Owner.  Failure of the CHPO to approve or disapprove  
    the request shall constitute approval of the request.  
  
    3. Administrative review is available for the following:  
  
        For the designated areas of the buildings, the addition or  
    elimination of duct conduits, HVAC vents, grilles, fire escapes,  
    pipes, and other similar wiring or mechanical elements necessary for  
    the normal operation of the buildings.  
  
      Section 3.  INCENTIVES  
  
    A. Seattle Municipal Code Title 23 provides for authorization of uses  
    in a designated Landmark that are not normally permitted in a  
    particular zoning classification by means of an administrative  
    conditional use.  
  
    B.  Building and Energy Code exceptions on an application basis.  
  
    C.  The availability of the Historic Preservation Special Tax  
    Valuation (Chapter 84.26 RCW) to all Seattle landmarks subject to  
    controls imposed by designation ordinance, on an application basis.  
  
    Section 4.  Enforcement of this Ordinance and penalties for its  
    violation shall be as provided in SMC 25.12.910.  
  
    Section 5.  The North East Library and the site are hereby added to  
    the Table of Historical Landmarks contained in SMC Chapter 25.32.  
  
    Section 6.  The City Clerk is directed to record this ordinance with  
    the King County Director of Records and Elections, deliver two copies  
    to the City Historic Preservation Officer, and deliver one copy to the  
    Director of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use.  
  
    Section 7.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Elizabeth Chave/jlb  
  
    NE Library Ord3.doc  
  
    January 17, 2003  
  
    version #3  
  
    - 1 -  
