* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114498**   
**Ordinance Number: 121114**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department and Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the Superintendent of City Light and the Director of Seattle Public Utilities to purchase land in the Skagit and the Tolt/Snoqualmie watersheds, to be set aside as salmonid habitat.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 7, 2003   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: McIver, Pageler, Wills)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 17, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 10, 2003   
**Committee:** Energy and Environmental Policy   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER AND WILLS   
  
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, LAND-ACQUISITION, TOLT-RIVER, WATERSHEDS, FISH, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION, SALMON  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 120355, 120359  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114498.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114498  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department and Seattle Public  
    Utilities; authorizing the Superintendent of City Light and the  
    Director of Seattle Public Utilities to purchase land in the Skagit  
    and the Tolt/Snoqualmie watersheds, to be set aside as salmonid  
    habitat.  
  
    WHEREAS, Puget Sound chinook and Puget Sound bull trout have been  
    listed as threatened species under the federal Endangered Species Act,  
    and the City has responded to these listings, in part, through the  
    development and implementation of an Early Action Program, approved by  
    Resolution 29905; and  
  
    WHEREAS, by Ordinance 120618, the City authorized the acquisition of  
    various habitat lands in the Skagit and Tolt/Snoqualmie watersheds as  
    part of the Early Action Program, and the majority of these properties  
    have been purchased; and  
  
    WHEREAS, by Ordinance 120355 the City Council approved the acceptance  
    of grant funds in the amount of $900,000 from the National Fish and  
    Wildlife Foundation and by Ordinance 120359 approved the acceptance of  
    grant funds in the amount of $145,000 from the Washington Salmon  
    Recovery Funding Board for habitat projects, including property  
    acquisition within the Early Action Program; and  
  
    WHEREAS, criteria for selecting property for purchase under the Early  
    Action Program, as well as certain specific properties, have been  
    identified; and  
  
    WHEREAS, there is efficiency to be gained in a single authorization of  
    land purchases for a single program and effectiveness to be gained in  
    the ability to complete transactions in a timely manner;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
      Section 1. The Superintendent of City Light and the Director of  
    Seattle Public Utilities, or their designees, are hereby authorized,  
    within and subject to appropriation authority and based on appraised  
    market value, to negotiate for and purchase parcels of land to be set  
    aside as salmonid habitat pursuant to the City's Early Action Program.  
    Each such purchase shall meet all of the following criteria: (a) the  
    property purchased is located in the Skagit or the Tolt/Snoqualmie  
    watersheds; (b) the purchase is consistent with at least one of the  
    purposes of the Early Action Program (to prevent degradation of  
    otherwise pristine land, to enhance prime habitat that would otherwise  
    not be enhanced, or to help build a network of prime habitat locations  
    in partnership with other interested parties for purposes of salmon  
    recovery in the Skagit and the Tolt/Snoqualmie watersheds) and (c) the  
    property purchased is wholly or partially in a floodplain or floodway  
    location (as defined by the Federal Emergency Management Act or local  
    authority), wetland (an area subjected to periodic inundation, usually  
    with soil and vegetative characteristics that separate it from  
    adjoining non-inundated areas), salmonid spawning habitat, salmonid  
    rearing habitat, salmonid off-channel habitat (a body of water, not  
    part of the active channel, but connected to the main stream by a  
    short channel), or environment that supports channel formation, water  
    quality and the supply/retention of large wood.  Properties that may  
    be purchased in the Skagit Basin also shall be compatible with the  
    Skagit Watershed Council Habitat Protection and Restoration Strategy.  
    Examples of such properties are identified in Attachment A to this  
    Ordinance.   Properties that may be purchased in the Tolt/Snoqualmie  
    Basin also shall be compatible with the Snohomish River Basin Chinook  
    Salmon Near Term Action Agenda.  Examples of such properties are  
    identified in Attachment B to this Ordinance.  
  
    Section 2. Property acquired pursuant to this Ordinance shall be  
    placed under the jurisdiction of the City Light Department, if  
    purchased through the Light Fund, or Seattle Public Utilities, if  
    purchased through the Water Fund.  
  
    Section 3. The City Light Department and Seattle Public Utilities  
    shall report annually to Council during the third quarter about the  
    habitat acquisitions accomplished pursuant to this Ordinance.  
  
    Section 4. Any act pursuant to the authority of and prior to the  
    effective date of this Ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachment A:  Chinook Salmon Conservation in the Skagit River Basin  
  
                              City of Seattle Habitat Acquisition Targets  
  
    Attachment B:  Chinook Salmon Conservation in the Tolt/Snoqualmie  
    River Basin  
  
                             City of Seattle Habitat Acquisition Targets  
  
    Denise Krownbell/DK  
  
    Property Ordinance  
  
    Febrary 5, 2002  
  
    version 1  
  
    Attachment A  
  
    Chinook Salmon Conservation in the Skagit River Basin  
  
    City of Seattle Habitat Acquisition Targets  
  
    * Esrah Buller Property located on the upper Skagit River near  
    Rockport.  
  
    * Fohn Land II LLC Property (P15661), Fir Island, North Fork Skagit  
    River. This property is 40 acres in size and adjacent to Washington  
    Department of Fish and Wildlife (WDFW) and Skagit County river front  
    properties. This property would be acquired as a key component to an  
    estuary restoration project.  
  
    * "Forest Land Service" Property located at the confluence of the  
    Suiattle River and Tenas Creek. This 80- acre property provides  
    important habitat to Suiattle spring chinook salmon, and is a cold-  
    water refuge area for adult bull trout.  
  
    Korthuis / Clear Valley LLC Property, Nookachamps River Subbasin,  
    lower Skagit River. The acquisition of this 796-acre property is  
    currently being explored through partners including The Nature  
    Conservancy, Trust for Public Lands, and WDFW as it contains important  
    lowland chinook and coho spawning and rearing habitat.  
  
    * Jack Martin Property located on the upper Skagit River between  
    Barnaby and Illabot sloughs  
  
    * .Panama Pacific Property located on the lower Sauk River, a  
    tributary to the Skagit, near Rockport  
  
    * Peterson Property located on the upper Skagit River near  
    Marblemount.  
  
    * Vandersar Property located on the middle Skagit River.  135 acres  
    located on Ross Island Slough, one of the largest and most diverse  
    off-channel habitat areas on the mainstem Skagit for rearing and  
    spawning by chinook, coho, chum, pink salmon, and steelhead trout.  
    Seattle City Light, the US Forest Service, WDFW, and the Washington  
    Department of Natural Resources protect the lands adjacent to this  
    property under public ownership.  
  
    Attachment B  
  
    Chinook Salmon Conservation in the Tolt/Snoqualmie River Basin  
  
    City of Seattle Habitat Acquisition Targets  
  
    * Chinook Bend Properties. These properties (042507-9011 through  
    042507-9015) are located on the Snoqualmie River just downstream from  
    the mouth of the Tolt River.  This is an area in which King County,  
    WDFW, and Cascade Land Conservancy are working to obtain critical  
    salmon habitat.  
  
    * Johnson Property. 15.03 acres with approximately 1200 feet of Tolt  
    River frontage.  The entire property is located within a floodplain.  
    Most of the property is considered a wetland and a portion of the  
    property has a Class 2 Stream suitable for salmonids to utilize.  The  
    vegetation on the property consists of a canopy of conifers,  
    hardwoods, and cottonwoods with an understory of ferns, salal, Oregon  
    grape, and other native vegetation.  
  
    * Lower Tolt Floodplain Properties.  Southernmost Property 142507-  
    9030.  Northernmost Property 142507-9047.  These 18 properties range  
    in size from .2 to 13.41 acres and are located almost entirely in the  
    100-year floodplain.  
  
    * Robertson Property. 13.41 acres with no river frontage.  The entire  
    property is located within the 100-year floodplain.  This property  
    contains a significant portion of the Class 2 stream that enters the  
    Tolt River on the Johnson Property.  
  
    * Tolt River Chalet Tracts.  Southernmost Property 865680-0120.  
    Northernmost Property 865680-0090. Recreational properties ranging in  
    size from .28-.51 acres with approximately 300 feet of river frontage  
    combined.  These are undeveloped properties in the active floodplain  
    and are adjacent to three properties already purchased by Seattle City  
    Light.  
  
    * Undeveloped Properties.  Southernmost Property 112507-9045.  
    Northernmost Property 122507-9031.  There are 18 properties ranging in  
    size from .21 to1.2 acres, located in King County on the left  
    (downstream) bank of the Tolt River and nearly entirely in the  
    floodplain.  Most properties are vacant lots zoned residential.  
  
    * Developed Properties.  Southernmost Property 112507-9062.  
    Northernmost Property 112507-9027.  Range .17-6.16.  These 32  
    properties are located in King County on the right bank of the Tolt  
    River, across the river from the undeveloped residential properties  
    described above and are nearly entirely in the floodplain.  
    Approximately half the properties contain some type of residential  
    dwelling, although typically a mobile home.  
