* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114477**   
**Ordinance Number: 121092**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Fleets and Facilities Department; authorizing the sale of real property at fair value to the abutting property owner and execution of a Quit Claim Deed in connection therewith; and designating the disposition of sales proceeds.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 10, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Licata)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 17, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 18, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** LESCHI, CENTRAL-AREA, SALES  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114477.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114477  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Fleets and Facilities Department;  
    authorizing the sale of real property at fair value to the abutting  
    property owner and execution of a Quit Claim Deed in connection  
    therewith; and designating the disposition of sales proceeds.  
  
    WHEREAS, the City acquired the property described below in Section 1  
    in 1919 through a Local Improvement District foreclosure under the  
    authority of Ordinance No. 33835, the Certificate of Sale to the City  
    of Seattle having been recorded under Auditor's Number 1294286; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the availability of the property described in Section 1 has  
    been circulated to other City and government agencies as excess to  
    department needs, and no City department or other agency indicated  
    interest in assuming jurisdiction over such property; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the property described in Section 1 is considered excess to  
    the City's needs and should be declared to be surplus; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Purchasers Patrick S. Arvidson and Julie A. Arvidson,  
    husband and wife, are the abutting property owners and have asked to  
    purchase the subject property at its fair value; and  
  
    WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the City to sell the excess  
    property; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The real property legally described as follows:  
  
    The west six feet of Lot 11, Block 43, Burke's Second Addition to the  
    City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of  
    Plats, page 248, records of King County, Washington, situate in the  
    City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.  
  
    is hereby declared to be surplus.  
  
    Section 2.  The Fleets and Facilities Department  ("Director") is  
    hereby authorized to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of The  
    City of Seattle, a Quit Claim Deed for the sale of the property  
    described in Section 1, in substantially the form attached hereto as  
    "Exhibit A."  
  
    Section 3.  Proceeds from the sale authorized herein shall be  
    deposited in the Unrestricted Subaccount of the Cumulative Reserve  
    Subfund (00164), in accordance with SMC 5.80.030, to be appropriated  
    consistent with Council Resolution 30379.  
  
    Section 4.  In the event the sale to the Purchaser contemplated by  
    this ordinance is not closed within sixty (60) calendar days after the  
    effective date of this ordinance, the authority granted by this  
    ordinance shall terminate.  
  
    Section 5.  Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 6.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned to the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President__________ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Exhibit A:  Quit Claim Deed  
  
    David Hemmelgarn/et  
  
    Ord-Arvidson.doc  
  
    January 21, 2003  
  
    version 2a  
  
    - 1 -  
  
  
  
    PRELIMINARY REPORT  
  
  
    EVALUATION OF REUSE AND DISPOSAL OPTIONS FOR  
  
  
    PMA No. 1593 - Behind 1309 LakeWashington Boulevard  
  
  
    Resolution 29799 directs that the Executive is to make its  
    recommendations on the reuse or disposal of excess property on a case  
    by case basis, using the Procedures for Evaluation of the Reuse and  
    Disposal of the City's Real Property adopted by that resolution.  
    Additionally, the Resolution identifies guidelines, which are to be  
    considered in making a recommendation.  This report addresses each of  
    the guidelines outlined in Resolution 29799 in support of the  
    recommendation.  
  
    Property Management Area:  PMA No. 1593  - Behind 1309 Lake  
    Washington Blvd.  
  
  
  
    BACKGROUND INFORMATION  
  
  
  
  
    Legal Description:  
  
    The west 6 feet of Lot 11, Block 43, Burke's Second Addition to the  
    City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of  
    Plats, page 248, Records of King County, Washington, situated in the  
    City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.  
  
    Physical Description and Related Factors: The site is a narrow  
    six foot by 60 foot strip of land that lies at the rear of Lot 11,  
    commonly known as 1309 Lake Washington Boulevard.  It has been  
    partially paved and gravelled and currently its 360 square feet  
    contributes to a private alleyway that provides access to the houses  
    on Lake Washington Boulevard.  It is located in a neighborhood with  
    substantial, well-kept homes in a SF 5000 zone.  It is identified by  
    the King County Assessor as Tax Parcel No. 125020-2673.  
  
    Guideline A:  CONSISTENCY  
  
    The analysis should consider the purpose for which the property was  
    originally acquired, funding sources used to acquire the property,  
    terms and conditions of original acquisition, the title or deed  
    conveying the property, or any other contract or instrument by which  
    the City is bound or to which the property is subject, and City, state  
    or federal ordinances, statues and regulations.  
  
    The City acquired the property in 1919 through a Local Improvement  
    District foreclosure under the authority of Ordinance No. 33835.  The  
    Certificate of Purchase from the City Treasurer was entered under King  
    County Auditor's Recording No. 1294286.  This parcel is identified as  
    General Municipal Purpose property.  The property was purchased with  
    General Fund monies.  
  
    Guideline B:  Compatibility and Suitability  
  
    The recommendation should reflect an assessment of the potential  
    for use of the property in support of adopted Neighborhood Plans, as  
    or in support of low-income housing, in support of economic  
    development, in support of affordable housing, for park or open space;  
    in support of Sound Transit Link Light Rail station area development;  
    as or in support of child care facilities, and in support of other  
    priorities reflected in adopted City policies.  
  
    Context.  The property is located in southeast Seattle, but is  
    not located within a neighborhood planning area.  It is too small for  
    consideration or use in support of any of the aforementioned city  
    policies or programs.  It is not located within a Sound Transit  
    planning area.  
  
    Range of Options.  Options include retention by the City, a  
    negotiated sale, or a sale of parcel at public bid.  No other City  
    department has identified any current or future use for the property.  
    Given the limited potential for redevelopment of the property,  
    retention of the property is not in the best interests of the City.  
    There are no other parties other than the adjoining property owner who  
    have expressed interest in the property.  
  
    Guideline C:  Other Factors  
  
    The recommendation should consider the highest and best use of the  
    property, compatibility of the proposed use with the physical  
    characteristics of the property and with surrounding uses, timing and  
    term of the proposed use, appropriateness of the consideration to be  
    received, unique attributes that make the property hard to replace,  
    potential for consolidation with adjacent public property to  
    accomplish future goals and objectives, conditions in the real estate  
    market, and known environmental factors that make affect the value of  
    the property.  
  
    Highest and Best Use: The zoning designation for the property is  
    SF 5000 - Single Family Residential - minimum lot size of 5000 feet.  
    The best and appropriate use for this property is incorporation into  
    the property of adjoining property owner.  
  
    Compatibility with the physical characteristics:  Sale of the  
    property to the abutting property owners will allow for better  
    driveway access to their parcel.  
  
    Compatibility with surrounding uses: The property is currently  
    used as alley/roadway.  The immediate neighborhood is zoned Single  
    Family Residential.  
  
    Potential for Consolidation with adjacent public property: The  
    property was originally acquired as part of an LID foreclosure.  There  
    are no other public properties in the vicinity that could benefit from  
    a consolidation with this parcel.  It is not needed for any public  
    right-of-way.  
  
  
  
    Timing and Term of Proposed Use:   The city has no use for this  
    property.  Sale to the adjoining interested property owner is the most  
    appropriate method of continuing the driveway access use of the  
    property.  
  
  
  
    Appropriateness of the consideration:  Due to the size of the  
    property, it has not been appraised.  
  
    The consideration for the transfer is based on the value established  
    by the King County Assessor for properties in the area and controlled  
    by the same zoning designation and neighborhood influences.  The  
    assessed value for this subject is $1,000. A small parcel like PMA No.  
    1593 is considered useless and undevelopable and is usually valued at  
    no more than $2.00 per square foot.  
  
    Unique Attributes:  The parcel is already being used as a  
    alley/driveway by the prospective purchaser.  
  
  
  
    Conditions in the real estate market: The real estate market is  
    currently strong for all property types.  
  
    Known environmental factors: There are no environmental factors  
    that would prevent a transfer of property.  A preliminary field visit  
    indicates no cause for further testing. Purchase and use of the sight  
    by the adjoining property owner is the most reasonable manner of sale.  
  
    Guideline D:  Sale  
  
    The recommendation should evaluate the potential for selling the  
    property to non-City public entities and to members of the general  
    public.  
  
    Information concerning the availability of the property was circulated  
    to all City departments and other public agencies that may have an  
    interest in publicly owned property.  This circulation took place in  
    January 2002. No agency has expressed an interest in acquiring the  
    property.  
  
    Recommendation  
  
  
  
    FFD recommends that sale of the property to the adjoining landowner be  
    approved by the City Council.  
  
    Attachment A  
  
    After recording, return to:  
  
    QUIT CLAIM DEED  
  
    (Unimproved Property)  
  
    Reference number of related documents:  
  
    Grantor: The City of Seattle  
  
    Grantee: Patrick S. Arvidson and Julie A. Arvidson, husband and wife  
  
    Legal Description:  
  
    1.  Abbreviated Form: The west six feet of Lot 11, Block 43, Burke's  
    2nd Addition to the City of Seattle.  
  
    2.  Additional legal description is on Page 1 of document.  
  
    Assessor's Property Tax Parcel Account Number(s):  
  
    Grant.  The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation  
    ("Grantor"), hereby conveys and quit claims to Patrick S. Arvidson and  
    Julie A. Arvidson, husband and wife, ("Grantees"), for and in  
    consideration of the sum of  One Thousand Dollars ($1000.00), and  
    subject to the COVENANT set forth below that certain real property  
    located in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, and legally  
    described as follows:  
  
    The west 6 feet of Lot 11, Block 43, Burke's 2nd Addition to the City  
    of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of  
    Plats, page 248, records of King County, Washington, situate in the  
    City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.  
  
    COVENANT REGARDING ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS  
  
    The Property described herein is conveyed AS-IS, WHERE-IS, WITH-ALL-  
    FAULTS, AND WITHOUT ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS  
    OR IMPLIED, AS TO ITS CONDITION, ENVIRONMENTAL OR OTHERWISE, OR ITS  
    SUITABILITY OR SUFFICIENCY FOR THE GRANTEE'S INTENDED USES AND  
    PURPOSES.    Grantee acknowledges that adverse physical, economic or  
    other conditions (including without limitation, adverse environmental  
    soils and ground-water conditions), either latent or patent, may exist  
    on the Property and assumes Grantor's responsibility for all  
    environmental conditions of the Property, known or unknown, including  
    but not limited to responsibility, if any, for investigation, removal  
    or remediation actions relating to the presence, release or threatened  
    release of any Hazardous Substance or other environmental  
    contamination relating to the Property.   Grantee also releases and  
    shall indemnify, defend, and hold Grantor and its past, present and  
    future officials, employees, and agents, harmless from and against any  
    and all claims, demands, penalties, fees, damages, losses, expenses  
    (including but not limited to regulatory agencies, attorneys,  
    contractors and consultants' fees and costs), and liabilities arising  
    out of, or in any way connected with, the condition of the Property  
    including but not limited to any alleged or actual past, present or  
    future presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous  
    Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property, or any portion  
    thereof or improvement thereon, from any cause whatsoever; it being  
    intended that Grantee shall so indemnify Grantor and such personnel  
    without regard to any fault or responsibility of Grantor or Grantee.  
    The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or  
    remediation of the Property and the acknowledgement, release and  
    indemnification touch and concern the Property, restrict the use of  
    the Property, constitute an assessment against the Property and are  
    intended to run with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs,  
    successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of Grantor and its  
    successors and assigns.  
  
    For purposes of this COVENANT, the term "Hazardous Substance" shall  
    mean petroleum products and compounds containing them; flammable  
    materials; radioactive materials; polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs")  
    and compounds containing them; asbestos or asbestos-containing  
    materials in any friable form; underground or above-ground storage  
    tanks; or any substance or material that is now or hereafter becomes  
    regulated under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule,  
    regulation, or other law relating to environmental protection,  
    contamination or cleanup.  
  
    Grantee's release shall include both claims by Grantee against Grantor  
    and cross-claims against Grantor by Grantee based upon claims made  
    against Grantee by any and all third parties. The obligation to  
    indemnify and defend shall include, but not be limited to, any  
    liability of Grantor to any and all federal, state or local regulatory  
    agencies or other persons or entities for remedial action costs and  
    natural resources damages claims.  The obligation to complete all  
    environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property  
    and the acknowledgement, release and indemnification touch and concern  
    the Property, restrict the use of the Property, constitute an  
    assessment against the Property and are intended to run with the land  
    and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns, and  
    inure to the benefit of Grantor and its successors and assigns.  
    This release means that Grantee accepts the Property "as-is, where-is  
    and with-all-faults," and that Grantee assumes all responsibility of  
    Grantor to investigate, remove and remediate any environmental  
    conditions on the Property and has no recourse against Grantor or any  
    of its officers, employees or agents for any claim or liability with  
    respect to the Property.  
  
    Grantor shall have the right to defend itself and seek from Grantee  
    recovery of any damages, liabilities, settlement awards and defense  
    costs and expenses incurred by Grantor if Grantee does not accept  
    unconditionally Grantor's tender to Grantee of the duty to  
    investigation, remove and/or remediate environmental conditions on the  
    Property and/or defend and indemnify Grantor against any such claim,  
    suit, demand, penalty, fee, damages, losses, cost or expense.  This  
    Covenant shall apply regardless of whether or not Grantee is culpable,  
    negligent or in violation of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation.  
    This Covenant is not intended, nor shall it, release, discharge or  
    affect any rights or causes of action that Grantor or Grantee may have  
    against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly  
    stated herein, and each of the parties reserves all such rights  
    including, but not limited to, claims for contribution or cost  
    recovery relating to any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or  
    emanating from the Property.  
  
    Executed this ____day of ___________, 200    , pursuant to Ordinance  
    of The City of Seattle.  
  
                THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
                By:  
  
                  Fleets & Facilities Director  
  
          Approved as to form by Purchaser:  
  
                 By:  
  
            Print Name:  
  
                Print Title:  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
                                                    ) ss  
  
    COUNTY OF KING         )  
  
      On this ____ day of __________, 200    , before me, the undersigned,  
    a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned  
    and sworn, personally appeared John Franklin, to me known to be the  
    Fleets & Facilities Director of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the municipal  
    corporation on behalf of which the within and foregoing instrument was  
    executed, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and  
    voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation, for the uses and  
    purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized  
    to execute said instrument.  
  
      WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in  
    this instrument above written.  
  
      (Signature)              (Print or Type Name)  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at  
    .  
  
    My commission expires ____________.  
  
    Exhibit A  
