* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114473**   
**Ordinance Number: 121097**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; approving a fifteen-year franchise for the operation of an electric light and power system by Seattle City Light in the City of Tukwila.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 24, 2003   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: Compton, Drago, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 1, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 1, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 10, 2003   
**Committee:** Energy and Environmental Policy   
**Sponsor:** WILLS   
  
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, FRANCHISES, INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, TUKWILA, ELECTRICITY  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114473.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114473  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; approving a  
    fifteen-year franchise for the operation of an electric light and  
    power system by Seattle City Light in the City of Tukwila.  
  
    WHEREAS, Seattle City Light has long provided electric service in the  
    City of Tukwila; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Seattle City Light is currently providing electric service in  
    Tukwila under a 50-year franchise entered into between Seattle and  
    Tukwila in 1958; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Tukwila expressed its desire to adopt the form of franchise  
    that Seattle has entered into over the past several years with the  
    Cities of Burien, Lake Forest Park, SeaTac, and Shoreline, thus  
    terminating the current franchise before its expiration date in 2008;  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, representatives of Seattle City Light and the City of Tukwila  
    have agreed on the terms of a replacement, long-term franchise  
    incorporating these comprehensive terms parallel to those adopted for  
    other cities served by Seattle City Light; Now Therefore,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1. The City of Seattle hereby approves a franchise for the  
    operation of an electric light and power system by Seattle City Light  
    in the City of Tukwila substantially in the form of Ordinance No. 2012  
    of the City of Tukwila, a copy of which is attached to this ordinance.  
    The Superintendent of the City Light Department is authorized to  
    accept the franchise on Seattle's behalf.  
  
    The franchise with the City of Tukwila has a term of fifteen years  
    beginning on March 1, 2003. Tukwila has agreed that during the term of  
    this franchise it will refrain from exercising its right to create its  
    own municipal electric utility. In consideration for this agreement,  
    Seattle has agreed to pay the City of Tukwila up to six percent of the  
    power portion of the electric service in Tukwila, and up to six  
    percent of the distribution portion of the electric service upon one  
    year's notice.  Tukwila has specified in its ordinance that these  
    contract payments will start at a level of four percent and then go up  
    to six percent in steps of an additional one percent in two-year  
    intervals.  
  
    By approving this franchise, Seattle agrees that the six percent  
    payment on the power portion of the electric service in Tukwila will  
    not be a factor in any rate differential between rates in Tukwila and  
    rates in Seattle, and that any rate differential on the power portion  
    of the rates will not exceed eight percent, once the six percent  
    contract payment level is reached.  Prior to that, the differential is  
    capped a level of two percent above the contract percentage  
    established by Tukwila in its ordinance.  Any rate differentials,  
    including differentials based on different operational requirements of  
    the distribution service, will be implemented only as a result of a  
    rate review process conducted by the Seattle City Council.  Seattle  
    agrees to appoint a member of its Citizens' Rate Advisory Committee  
    nominated by Tukwila and other suburban cities to represent the  
    interests of suburban cities served in whole or in part by Seattle  
    City Light.  
  
    The franchise provides that the City of Seattle will continue to  
    collect its utility tax on the gross revenues generated by Seattle  
    City Light from providing electric service in the City of Tukwila.  
  
      Section 2. As of the effective date of this franchise, the previous  
    franchise for Seattle City Light service in Tukwila, authorized by  
    Tukwila Ordinance No. 262 and approved by Seattle Ordinance 87631,  
    which would have otherwise continued until 2008, will terminate.  
  
    Section 3. Any acts taken to accomplish the purposes of this ordinance  
    prior to its effective date are hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
      Section 4.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _________________, 2003.  
  
              _____________________________________  
  
              President _______ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2003.  
  
              ___________________________________________  
  
                Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2003.  
  
              ___________________________________________  
  
                               City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    wp:wp  
  
    01/24/03  
  
    TukwilafFranchise Ordinance.doc  
  
     (Ver. 1 )  
  
    Attachment A (Ordinance 2012)  
  
    AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TUKWILA, WASHINGTON, GRANTING SEATTLE CITY  
    LIGHT - AN ELECTRIC UTILITY OWNED AND OPERATED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE,  
    A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION - A NON-EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE TO CONSTRUCT,  
    MAINTAIN, OPERATE, REPLACE AND REPAIR AN ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER  
    SYSTEM IN, ACROSS, OVER, ALONG, UNDER, THROUGH AND BELOW CERTAIN  
    DESIGNATED PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY OF THE CITY OF TUKWILA, WASHINGTON;  
    PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY; AND ESTABLISHING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.  
  
    WHEREAS, RCW 35A.11.020 grants the City broad authority to regulate  
    the use of the public right-of-way; and  
  
    WHEREAS, RCW 35A.47.040 authorizes the City "to grant nonexclusive  
    franchises for the use of public streets, bridges or other public  
    ways, structures or places above or below the surface of the ground  
    for......poles, conduits, tunnels, towers and structures, pipes and  
    wires and appurtenances thereof for transmission and distribution of  
    electrical energy..."; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Council finds that it is in the best interests of the  
    health, safety and welfare of residents of the Tukwila community to  
    grant a non-exclusive franchise to Seattle City Light for the  
    operation of an electric light and power system within the City right-  
    of-way;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF TUKWILA, WASHINGTON,  
    HEREBY ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Definitions.  The following terms contained herein, unless  
    otherwise indicated, shall be defined as follows:  
  
    1.1  City: The City of Tukwila, a municipal corporation of the  
    State of Washington, specifically including all areas incorporated  
    therein as of the effective date of this ordinance and any other areas  
    later added thereto by annexation or other means.  
  
    1.2  Days:  Calendar days.  
  
    1.3  Director  The head of the Planning and Development Services  
    Department of the City, or the head of the Public Works Department of  
    the City, or the designee of either of these individuals.  
  
    1.4  Facilities: All wires, lines, cables, conduits, equipment  
    and supporting structures, located in the City's right-of-way,  
    utilized by the grantee in the operation of activities authorized by  
    this ordinance.  The abandonment by grantee of any facilities as  
    defined herein shall not act to remove the same from this definition.  
  
    1.5  Grantee:  As incorporated or used herein, shall refer to  
    Seattle City Light (SCL).  
  
    1.6  Permittee: A person who has been granted a permit by the  
    Permitting Authority, and SCL operating under Section 6 of this  
    agreement.  
  
    1.7  Permitting Authority: The head of the City department  
    authorized to process and grant permits required to perform work in  
    the City's right-of-way, or the head of any agency authorized to  
    perform this function on the City's behalf. Unless otherwise  
    indicated, all references to Permitting Authority shall include the  
    designee of the department or agency head.  
  
    1.8  Person: An entity or natural person.  
  
    1.9  Revenue: This term as used herein shall have the same  
    meaning as utilized by the City of Seattle in calculating the amount  
    of utility tax payable by SCL to the City of Seattle.  
  
    1.10  Right-of-Way: As used herein shall refer to the surface of  
    and the space along, above and below any street, road, highway,  
    freeway, lane, sidewalk, alley, court, boulevard, parkway, drive,  
    utility easement, and/or road right-of-way now or hereafter held or  
    administered by the City of Tukwila.  
  
    1.11  SCL: Seattle City Light, an electric utility owned and  
    operated by the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation, and its  
    respective successors and assigns.  
  
    Section 2.  Franchise Granted.  
  
    2.1  Pursuant to RCW 35A.47.040, the City hereby grants to SCL, its  
    heirs, successors and assigns, subject to the terms and conditions  
    hereinafter set forth, a franchise beginning on the effective date of  
    this ordinance.  
  
    2.2  This franchise shall grant SCL the right, privilege and  
    authority, subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth,  
    to construct, operate, maintain, replace and use all necessary  
    equipment and facilities for an electric light and power system in,  
    under, on, across, over, through, along or below the public right-of-  
    way located in the City of Tukwila, as approved under City permits  
    issued by the Permitting Authority pursuant to this franchise and City  
    ordinances.  
  
    2.3  This franchise specifically does not authorize SCL to place  
    facilities or to otherwise utilize facilities in the City's right-of-  
    way to provide telecommunications, cable television, point-to-point  
    data communications, or similar services either via wire or wireless  
    technologies regardless of whether these services are provided to any  
    person outside SCL's organization, unless approved by a separate  
    agreement. This paragraph does not restrict SCL's ability to utilize  
    telemetric devices to monitor and operate its electrical distribution  
    system or the usage of electrical energy.  
  
    2.4  This franchise is granted upon the express condition that it  
    shall not in any manner prevent the City from granting other or  
    further franchises in, along, over, through, under, below or across  
    any right-of-way. Such franchise shall in no way prevent or prohibit  
    the City from using any right-of-way or other City property or affect  
    its jurisdiction over them or any part of them; and the City shall  
    retain the authority to make all necessary changes, relocations,  
    repairs, maintenance, establishment, improvement, dedication of the  
    same as the City may deem fit, including the dedication,  
    establishment, maintenance and improvement of all new rights-of-way or  
    other public properties of every type and description.  
  
    2.5  Upon acceptance by the Grantee, this franchise shall supersede  
    the existing franchise entered into between the City and the Grantee  
    in 1958, authorized by Tukwila Ordinance No. 262 and accepted by  
    Seattle Ordinance 87631.  Accordingly, once this franchise is accepted  
    by the Grantee, the 1958 franchise shall have no further force or  
    effect as of the effective date of this franchise.  
  
    Section 3.  Franchise Term.  The term of the franchise granted  
    hereunder shall be for the period of 15 years, counted from the last  
    day of the calendar month in which this ordinance became effective.  
  
    Section 4.  Consideration.  It is recognized by the City and by SCL  
    that the City has the authority to establish its own municipal  
    electric utility, and the authority to acquire SCL electric  
    distribution properties in the City for that purpose.  
  
    4.1  In consideration for the City agreeing not to exercise such  
    authority during the term of this franchise, SCL agrees to the  
    following:  
  
    4.1.1  SCL shall pay the City 4% in 2003 and 2004; 5% in 2005 and  
    2006, and 6% as of 2007 of the amount of revenue derived from the  
    power portion of SCL service to customers in the City; and shall pay  
    the City 4% in 2003 and 2004, 5% in 2005 and 2006, and 6% as of 2007  
    of the amount of revenue derived from the distribution portion of SCL  
    service to customers in the City. The City retains the authority to  
    change the above percentages, to a maximum of 6% on the power portion  
    of SCL service and to a maximum of 6% on the distribution portion of  
    SCL service during the course of the franchise upon one year written  
    notice to SCL.  
  
    4.1.2  SCL shall not include any part of the power portion of the  
    payment to the City provided in Section 4.1.1 above as a component of  
    any rate differential between customers served by SCL in the City and  
    customers served by SCL in other jurisdictions.  
  
    4.1.3  SCL shall not charge greater than a 6% differential in 2003 and  
    2004; a 7% differential in 2005 and 2006, and an 8% differential as of  
    2007 in the power portion of the rates to customers in the City  
    compared to the power portion of the rates charged to similar  
    customers in the City of Seattle; any differential in the power  
    portion of the rates charged to customers in the City shall be the  
    result of a rate review process conducted by the Seattle City Council.  
    The power portion of SCL service to customers in the City is  
    approximately 60% of the rates at the time of entering into this  
    franchise. Any subsequent shift in the proportion of power versus  
    distribution in the rates to SCL customers in the City shall be the  
    result of a rate review process conducted by the Seattle City Council.  
  
    4.1.4  SCL shall provide the City with a good faith estimate and  
    supporting information, within a reasonable time from the City's  
    request, of the likely differential rate impact on the distribution  
    portion of the rates in the City which, other than the payment related  
    to the distribution portion of SCL service under Section 4.1.1 above,  
    may only be created by an operational request or requirement of the  
    City which is different from operational standards in other areas  
    served by SCL.  
  
    4.1.5  SCL shall appoint a member nominated by the City and other  
    suburban cities to its Citizens' Rate Advisory Committee who will  
    represent the interests of suburban cities served in whole or in part  
    by SCL.  
  
    4.2  Should the City of Seattle be prevented by judicial or  
    legislative action from collecting a utility tax on all or a part of  
    the revenues derived by SCL from customers in the City, SCL shall  
    reduce the payments to the City provided in Section 4.1.1 above by an  
    equivalent amount; and this entire Agreement may be terminated by the  
    City at any time thereafter upon 180 days written notice.  During such  
    notice period, however, SCL and the City shall attempt to agree upon  
    acceptable substitute provisions.  
  
    4.3  Should a court of competent jurisdiction declare the  
    consideration to be paid to the City in Section 4.1.1 above invalid,  
    in whole or in part, or should a change in law make the consideration  
    to be paid to the City in Section 4.1.1 above invalid, in whole or in  
    part, this entire Agreement may be terminated by the City at any time  
    thereafter upon 180 days written notice. During such notice period,  
    however, SCL and the City shall attempt to agree upon acceptable,  
    substitute provisions.  
  
    4.4  Payments provided for under this section shall be paid monthly  
    within 30 days following the end of each month.  
  
    Section 5.  City Ordinances and Regulations.  Nothing herein shall be  
    deemed to direct or restrict the City's ability to adopt and enforce  
    all necessary and appropriate ordinances regulating the performance of  
    the conditions of this franchise, including any reasonable ordinance  
    made in the exercise of its police powers in the interest of public  
    safety and for the welfare of the public. The City shall have the  
    authority at all times to control, by appropriate regulations, the  
    location, elevation, and manner of construction and maintenance of any  
    facilities of SCL located within the City's right-of-way. SCL shall  
    promptly conform with all such regulations, unless compliance would  
    cause SCL to violate other requirements of law.  
  
    Section 6.  Right-of-Way Management.  During the term of this  
    franchise, SCL shall comply with the provisions of Title 11 of the  
    Tukwila Municipal Code, known as the "Right-Of-Way Use Code."  
  
    Section 7.   Undergrounding.  SCL hereby affirms its understanding and  
    agreement that its activities within the City must comply with any  
    undergrounding requirements established by the City of Tukwila;  
    provided, however, that any undergrounding resulting from Sound  
    Transit construction shall not be considered an undergrounding  
    requirement established by the City of Tukwila.  
  
    7.1  Information. SCL shall provide to the City of Tukwila, or  
    any entity that has provided notice to SCL of a joint trenching  
    project pursuant to the City's undergrounding requirements, all  
    reasonably requested information regarding the nature and location of  
    facilities installed, owned, operated or maintained by SCL within a  
    proposed undergrounding area.  Said information will be provided  
    within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 30 days following  
    the request.  
  
    7.2  Notice.  SCL shall respond to any notification of an  
    undergrounding project proposed by the City, within 45 days following  
    such notification, with written commitment either to participate in  
    the proposed project or to remove its facilities.  
  
    7.3  Cost.  SCL agrees to bear its proportionate share of all  
    costs common to participants in any joint trenching project, and to  
    bear the entire cost of all materials and labor particularly necessary  
    for the underground installation of its facilities and - upon the  
    completion of that installation - the removal of the overhead  
    facilities replaced thereby.  
  
    7.4  Civil Works: SCL agrees to allow the City's construction  
    contractors to provide civil works on behalf of SCL for any  
    underground installation of electrical facilities required by a road  
    or other construction project, provided that the City's contractors  
    install such works in accordance with SCL specifications, and provided  
    that the installations are inspected, approved and accepted by SCL.  
    SCL further agrees to reimburse the City for the cost of all civil  
    works accepted by SCL, provided such costs are not unreasonable.  
  
    Section 8.  Street Lighting.  As a condition of placing its facilities  
    in the public streets and as part of the electric service it provides  
    to its customers in Tukwila, SCL shall install, maintain and furnish  
    equipment and power for street illumination, in accord with policies  
    and standards established by the City of Tukwila.  
  
    Section 9.  Implementation of Service Requirements.  
  
    9.1  Rate Information. SCL shall provide the City with copies of  
    all studies, reports, memoranda or other documents provided to the  
    legislative branches of the City of Seattle regarding the  
    establishment of the rates or any portion thereof to be charged to  
    customers in Tukwila, within seven days of the transmission of said  
    documents to the legislative branches of the City of Seattle. Tukwila  
    shall be provided a reasonable opportunity to review said documents  
    and to comment or otherwise participate in Seattle's rate setting  
    process.  SCL shall ensure that the City receives reasonable advanced  
    notice of all public hearings, or other opportunities for the City to  
    represent the interests of SCL customers within Tukwila, during  
    Seattle's rate setting process.  
  
    9.2  City Council to Review Rates. The Tukwila City Council  
    shall have the authority to establish policies regarding the  
    implementation of SCL service requirements included in Sections 7 and  
    8 of this ordinance.  SCL shall assist the City Council in  
    establishing these policies and in determining the impact, if any,  
    such policies may have upon SCL customers within the City limits.  
  
    9.3  Amortization. The term of the Franchise herein  
    notwithstanding, SCL shall amortize capital expenditures incurred in  
    order to meet the requirements of this franchise in accordance with  
    its standard financial policies.  
  
    9.4  Communication with City Customers. SCL will review with the  
    City in advance any planned communication to its customers in the City  
    regarding the services and rates affected by this franchise.  
  
    Section 10.  Planning Coordination.  
  
  
  
    10.1  Growth Management. SCL agrees, as follows, to  
    participate in the development of, and reasonable updates to, the  
    utilities element of the City's comprehensive plan:  
  
    10.1.1  For SCL's service within the City limits, SCL will participate  
    in a cooperative effort with the City of Tukwila to develop a  
    Comprehensive Plan Utilities Element which meets the requirements  
    described in RCW 36.70A.070(4).  
  
    10.1.2  SCL will participate in a cooperative effort with the City to  
    ensure that the Utilities Element of Tukwila's Comprehensive Plan is  
    accurate as it relates to SCL's operations, and is updated to ensure  
    it continued relevance at reasonable intervals.  
  
    10.1.3  SCL shall submit information related to the general location,  
    proposed location, and capacity of all existing and proposed  
    electrical lines as requested by the Director within a reasonable  
    time, not exceeding 60 days from receipt of a written request for such  
    information.  
  
    10.1.4  SCL will update information provided to the City under this  
    Section 10 whenever there are major changes in SCL's electrical system  
    plans for Tukwila.  
  
    10.2  System Development Information. SCL will assign a  
    representative whose responsibility shall be to coordinate with the  
    City on planning for CIP projects including those that involve  
    undergrounding. At a minimum, such coordination shall include the  
    following:  
  
    10.2.1  By February 1 of each year, SCL shall provide the Mayor or his  
    designee with a schedule of its planned capital improvements, which  
    may affect the right of way for that year;  
  
    10.2.2  SCL shall meet with the City, other franchisees and users of  
    the right-of-way, according to a schedule to be determined by the  
    City, to schedule and coordinate construction; and  
  
    10.2.3  All construction locations, activities and schedules shall be  
    coordinated, as required by the Mayor or his designee, to minimize  
    public inconvenience, disruption or damages.  
  
    10.3  Development of Right-of-Way Standards. SCL herein agrees  
    to provide the staff support necessary to enable SCL to meaningfully  
    participate in the City's ongoing development of right-of-way  
    standards. By way of illustration and not limitation, this  
    participation shall include attendance at City planning meetings,  
    review and comment of documents proposed for adoption, and any other  
    activities that may be required in the formulation of right-of-way  
    standards.  
  
    10.4  Coordination of Permitting Activities. The parties agree  
    to attempt to reduce the number of transactions at different locations  
    that must be completed by a Tukwila applicant for a land use permit as  
    follows:  
  
    10.4.1  If the City provides office space at City Hall for SCL at no  
    charge, SCL will assign a representative who will keep regular hours  
    at City Hall pursuant to a schedule mutually acceptable to both  
    parties, so long as there is sufficient workload. The SCL  
    representative will participate with City staff in reviewing land use  
    plans and permits requiring coordination with or approval by SCL,  
    including any project requiring new or changed electric service or  
    easements within the City limits.  
  
    10.5  Emergency Operations. The City and SCL agree to cooperate  
    in the planning and implementation of emergency operations response  
    procedures.  
  
    Section 11.  Service Quality.   SCL shall exercise the same degree of  
    technical, professional and administrative quality in serving its  
    customers in the City that is required within the electrical energy  
    industry and that is provided to all other customers with similar  
    circumstances within SCL's service territory. SCL shall at all times  
    comply with the minimum regulatory standards presently in effect or as  
    may be amended for the sale and distribution of electrical energy.  
  
    Section 12.  City Use of SCL Property. SCL owns properties and  
    facilities in the City which are essential to SCL's electrical utility  
    operations. SCL will cooperate with the City in the same manner as it  
    does with the City of Seattle in aligning the operation and management  
    of its property and facilities to serve the goals and objectives of  
    the City, including the City's use of SCL property for public  
    purposes, while at the same time protecting the safe and efficient  
    operation of SCL's electric utility.  
  
    12.1  Favorable Consideration of City Requests. SCL shall give  
    every favorable consideration to a request by the City for use of SCL  
    property, including requests by the City to use SCL property for such  
    public uses as public parks, public open space, public trails for non-  
    motorized transportation, surface water management, or other  
    specifically identified public uses.  
  
    12.2  Public Adoption of Proposed Uses. Each proposed use of SCL  
    property by the City shall first be approved by Council action  
    consistent with the City's Comprehensive Plan.  
  
    12.3  Prior Approval Specific Plans by SCL.  Prior to any  
    installation, modification or extension of any improvement on SCL  
    property proposed by the City, the City shall supply SCL with detailed  
    drawings and specifications relating to such proposed development. No  
    construction, installation or modification shall be performed until  
    the plans have been approved in writing by SCL.  
  
    12.4  Permit for City Use of SCL Property. SCL shall provide the  
    City with a separate permit, in a form similar to that used for the  
    City of Seattle, for each use of SCL property requested by the City,  
    which shall detail the terms of such use including provisions to  
    assure the continued safe and efficient operation of the electric  
    utility.  
  
    Section 13.  Finance.  
  
    13.1  Annual Reconciliation. Unless otherwise provided herein,  
    all charges between the parties, except for charges for electrical  
    service to specific City buildings, penalties, reimbursements for  
    breach or other forms of cure, and payment pursuant to Section 4.1.1,  
    shall be accrued and reconciled annually in accord with the following  
    process:  
  
    13.1.1  Within 30 days of the anniversary of the execution of this  
    agreement, or upon such other date as the parties may agree, the  
    parties shall exchange itemized invoices of charges that have been  
    incurred over the previous 12-month period. Said invoice shall include  
    all information reasonably necessary to allow each party to evaluate  
    the validity and magnitude of each charge.  
  
    13.1.2  Each party shall have 45 days to provide the other with  
    written notice disputing any specific charge on the other's invoice.  
    If an invoice is not disputed within this period, then the invoice  
    will be deemed accurate.  
  
    13.1.3  Undisputed charges shall be set off against each other. The  
    party with a remaining balance due after the set-off shall provide a  
    reconciled invoice to the other party.  Said invoice shall be  
    satisfied within 45 days of its receipt.  
  
    13.2  Other Charges.  Unless otherwise provided herein, charges  
    between the parties shall be paid within 45 days of the receipt of a  
    written invoice for said charge.  
  
    Section 14.  Indemnification.  
  
    14.1  SCL hereby releases, covenants not to bring suit, and agrees to  
    indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City, its elected officials,  
    employees, agents and volunteers from any and all claims, costs,  
    judgments, awards or liability to any person, including claims by  
    SCL's own employees to which SCL might otherwise be immune under Title  
    51 RCW, arising from injury, sickness or death of any person or damage  
    to property by the negligent acts or omissions of SCL, its agents,  
    servants, officers or employees in performing activities authorized by  
    this franchise.  SCL further releases and covenants not to bring suit,  
    and agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City, its  
    elected officials, employees, agents and volunteers from any and all  
    claims, costs, judgments, awards or liability to any person (including  
    claims by SCL's own employees, including those claims to which SCL  
    might otherwise have immunity under Title 51 RCW) arising against the  
    City solely by virtue of the City's ownership or control of the  
    rights-of-way or other public properties, or by virtue of SCL's  
    exercise of the rights granted herein, or by virtue of the City's  
    permitting SCL's use of the right-of-way or other public property  
    based upon the inspection or lack of inspection of work performed by  
    SCL, its agents and servants, officers or employees, in connection  
    with work authorized on the City's property or property over which the  
    City has control, pursuant to this franchise or pursuant to any other  
    permit or approval issued in connection with this franchise. This  
    covenant of indemnification shall include, but not be limited to,  
    claims against the City arising as a result of the negligent acts or  
    omissions of SCL, its agents, servants, officers or employees in  
    barricading, instituting trench safety systems, or providing other  
    adequate warnings of any excavation, construction or work in any  
    right-of-way or other public place in performance of work or services  
    permitted under this franchise. If final judgment is rendered against  
    the City, its elected officials, employees, agents and volunteers, or  
    any of them, SCL shall satisfy the same.  
  
    14.2  Inspection or acceptance by the City of any work performed by  
    SCL at the time of completion of construction shall not be grounds for  
    avoidance of any of these covenants of indemnification. Said  
    indemnification obligations shall extend to claims that are not  
    reduced to a suit and any claims that may be compromised prior to the  
    culmination of any litigation or the institution of any litigation.  
  
    14.3  In the event SCL refuses to undertake the defense of any suit or  
    any claim, after the City's request for defense and indemnification  
    has been made pursuant to the indemnification clauses contained  
    herein, and SCL's refusal is subsequently determined by a court having  
    jurisdiction (or such other tribunal that the parties shall agree to  
    decide the matter), to have been a wrongful refusal on the part of  
    SCL, then SCL shall pay all of the City's costs and expenses for  
    defense of the action, including reasonable attorneys' fees of  
    recovering under this indemnification clause as well as any judgment  
    against the City.  
  
    14.4  Should a court of competent jurisdiction determine that this  
    franchise is subject to RCW 4.24.115, then, in the event of liability  
    for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damages to  
    property caused by or resulting from the concurrent negligence of SCL  
    and the City, its officers, employees and agents, SCL's liability  
    hereunder shall be only to the extent of SCL's negligence. This waiver  
    has been mutually negotiated by the parties.  
  
    Section 15.  Enforcement.  
  
    15.1  In addition to all other rights and powers retained by the City  
    under this franchise, the City reserves the right to revoke and  
    terminate this franchise and all rights and privileges of the Grantee  
    in the event of a substantial violation or breach of its terms and  
    conditions. Likewise, SCL may terminate this franchise in the event of  
    a substantial violation or breach of its terms and conditions by the  
    City.  
  
    15.2  A substantial violation or breach by a Grantee shall include,  
    but shall not be limited to, the following:  
  
    15.2.1  An uncured violation of any material provision of this  
    franchise, or any material rule, order or regulation of the City made  
    pursuant to its power to protect the public health, safety and  
    welfare;  
  
    15.2.2  An intentional evasion or knowing attempt to evade any  
    material provision of this franchise or practice of any fraud or  
    deceit upon the system customers or upon the City;  
  
    15.2.3  Failure to begin or substantially complete any system  
    construction or system extension as set forth in a franchise or right-  
    of-way use agreement;  
  
    15.2.4  Failure to provide the services specified in the franchise;  
  
    15.2.5  Misrepresentation of material fact during negotiations  
    relating to this franchise or the implementation thereof;  
  
    15.2.6  A continuous and willful pattern of grossly inadequate service  
    and failure to respond to legitimate customer complaints; or  
  
    15.2.7  An uncured failure to pay fees associated with this franchise.  
  
    15.3  No violation or breach shall occur which is without fault of the  
    Grantee or the City, or which is as a result of circumstances beyond  
    the Grantee's or the City's reasonable control. Neither the Grantee  
    nor the City shall be excused by economic hardship nor by nonfeasance  
    or malfeasance of its directors, officers, agents or employees;  
    provided, however, that damage to equipment causing service  
    interruption shall be deemed to be the result of circumstances beyond  
    a Grantee's or the City's control if it is caused by any negligent act  
    or unintended omission of its employees (assuming proper training) or  
    agents (assuming reasonable diligence in their selection), or sabotage  
    or vandalism or malicious mischief by its employees or agents. A  
    Grantee, or the City, shall bear the burden of proof in establishing  
    the existence of such conditions.  
  
    15.4  Except in the case of termination pursuant to Paragraph 15.1.5  
    of this section, prior to any termination or revocation, the City or  
    the Grantee shall provide the other with detailed written notice of  
    any substantial violation or material breach upon which it proposes to  
    take action. The party who is allegedly in breach shall have a period  
    of 60 days following such written notice to cure the alleged violation  
    or breach, demonstrate to the other's satisfaction that a violation or  
    breach does not exist, or submit a plan satisfactory to the other to  
    correct the violation or breach. If, at the end of said 60-day period,  
    the City or the Grantee reasonably believes that a substantial  
    violation or material breach is continuing and the party in breach is  
    not taking satisfactory corrective action, the other may declare that  
    the party in breach in default, which declaration must be in writing.  
    Within 20 days after receipt of a written declaration of default from,  
    the party that is alleged to be in default may request, in writing, a  
    hearing before a "hearing examiner" as provided by the City's  
    development regulations. The hearing examiner's decision may be  
    appealed to any court of competent jurisdiction.  
  
    15.5  The City may, in its discretion, provide an additional  
    opportunity for the Grantee to remedy any violation or breach and come  
    into compliance with this agreement so as to avoid the termination or  
    revocation.  
  
    15.6  In addition to any other remedy provided for herein for  
    violation of any provision, or failure to comply with any of the  
    requirements of this franchise, the City may levy liquidated damages  
    of up to $500.00 for each of the first five days that a violation  
    exists, and up to $1,000.00 for each subsequent day that a violation  
    exists. Payment of such liquidated damages shall not relieve any  
    person of the duty to correct the violation.  
  
    15.7  Any violation existing for a period greater then 30 days may be  
    remedied by the City at the Grantee's expense.  
  
    Section 16.  Survival.  All of the provisions, conditions and  
    requirements of Section 6, "Right-of-Way Management", and Section 14,  
    "Indemnification", of this franchise shall be in addition to any and  
    all other obligations and liabilities SCL may have to the City at  
    common law, by statute, or by contract, and shall survive the City's  
    franchise to SCL for the use of the areas mentioned in Section 2  
    herein, and any renewals or extensions thereof. All of the provisions,  
    conditions, regulations and requirements contained in this franchise  
    ordinance shall further be binding upon the heirs, successors,  
    executors, administrators, legal representatives and assigns of SCL,  
    and all privileges, as well as all obligations and liabilities of SCL  
    inure its heirs, successors and assigns equally as if they were  
    specifically mentioned wherever SCL is named herein.  
  
    Section 17.  Severability.   If any section, sentence, clause or  
    phrase of this ordinance should be held to be invalid or  
    unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity  
    or unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity or  
    constitutionality of any other section, sentence, clause or phrase of  
    this franchise ordinance. The parties may amend, repeal, add, replace  
    or modify any provision of this Franchise to preserve the intent of  
    the parties as expressed herein prior to any finding of invalidity or  
    unconstitutionality.  
  
    Section 18.  Assignment.   This franchise shall not be sold,  
    transferred, assigned, or disposed of in whole or in part either by  
    sale, voluntary or involuntary merger, consolidation or otherwise,  
    without the written approval of the City.  Any costs associated with  
    the City's review of any transfer proposed by the Grantee shall be  
    reimbursed to the City by the Grantee.  
  
    18.1  An assignment of this franchise shall be deemed to occur if  
    there is an actual change in control or where ownership of 50% or more  
    of the beneficial interests, singly or collectively, are obtained by  
    other parties. The word "control" as used herein is not limited to  
    majority stock ownership only, but includes actual working control in  
    whatever manner exercised.  
  
    18.2  Except as otherwise provided herein, the Grantee shall promptly  
    notify the City prior to any proposed change in, or transfer of, or  
    acquisition by any other party of control of the Grantee's company.  
    Every change, transfer, or acquisition of control of the Grantee's  
    company shall cause a review of the proposed transfer. In the event  
    that the City denies its consent and such change, transfer or  
    acquisition of control has been effected, the Franchise is terminated.  
  
    Section 19.  Notice.  Any notice or information required or permitted  
    to be given to the parties under this franchise may be sent to the  
    following addresses unless otherwise specified:  
  
      Superintendent of Seattle City Light  Tukwila Public Works Director  
  
      700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3100  6200 Southcenter Boulevard  
  
      Seattle, WA  98104-5031  Tukwila, WA  98188  
  
      Phone:  206-684-3200  Phone: 206-433-0179  
  
      Fax:  206-684-3158  Fax:  206-431-3665  
  
    Section 20.  Non-Waiver.  The failure of either party to enforce any  
    breach or violation by the other party of any provision of this  
    Franchise shall not be deemed to be a waiver or a continuing waiver by  
    the non-breaching party of any subsequent breach or violation of the  
    same or any other provision of this Franchise.  
  
    Section 21.  Alternate Dispute Resolution.  If the parties are unable  
    to resolve disputes arising from the terms of this franchise, prior to  
    resorting to a court of competent jurisdiction, the parties shall  
    submit the dispute to a non-binding alternate dispute resolution  
    process agreed to by the parties. Unless otherwise agreed between the  
    parties or determined herein, the cost of that process shall be shared  
    equally.  
  
    Section 22.  Entire Agreement.  This franchise constitutes the entire  
    understanding and agreement between the parties as to the subject  
    matter herein, and no other agreements or understandings, written or  
    otherwise, shall be binding upon the parties upon execution and  
    acceptance hereof  
  
    Section 23.  Directions to City Clerk.  The City Clerk is hereby  
    authorized and directed to forward certified copies of this ordinance  
    to the Grantee set forth in this ordinance. The Grantee shall have 60  
    days from receipt of the certified copy of this ordinance to accept in  
    writing the terms of the franchise granted to the Grantee in this  
    ordinance.  
  
    Section 24.  Publication Costs.  In accord with State law, this  
    ordinance shall be published in full. The costs of said publication  
    shall be borne by the Grantee.  
  
    Section 25.  Effective Date.  If accepted by the Grantee, this  
    ordinance shall take effect and be in full force as of March 1, 2003.  
    The City Clerk is hereby directed to publish this ordinance in full.  
  
    PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF TUKWILA, WASHINGTON, at a  
    Regular Meeting thereof this ___________ day of  
    ___________________________ , 2003.  
  
    _______________________________________  
  
    Steven M. Mullet, Mayor  
  
    ATTEST/AUTHENTICATED:  
  
    _______________________________  
  
    Jane E. Cantu, CMC, City Clerk  Filed with the City Clerk:  
    ________________  
  
      Passed by the City Council: ________________  
  
    APPROVED AS TO FORM BY:  Published: ________________  
  
      Effective Date: ________________  
  
    _______________________________   Ordinance Number: ________________  
  
    Office of the City Attorney  
  
    SCL Franchise Ordinance  
  
    Page  
