* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114496**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to restoration and protection of Seattle's creeks; providing for the submission to the qualified electors of the City at a special election to be held in conjunction with the statewide primary on September 16, 2003, of a proposed measure relating to urban creek restoration and daylighting, as an alternative ("substitute") for proposed Initiative Measure No. 80; setting requirements for restoration and daylighting on City-owned property and creek restoration on private property, protecting high-priority creek corridors, providing for financial and other incentives for creek restoration and daylighting; and creating a Creek Restoration Account in the General Fund.  
  
**Status:** Retired 04/05/04   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Godden, Steinbrueck)   
**Note:** I-80 Alternative  
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 3, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN   
  
**Index Terms:** ELECTIONS, INITIATIVES-AND-REFERENDA, RIVERS-AND-STREAMS, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, LAND-USE-PERMITS, BUILDING-PERMITS, FISH, DEVELOPMENT-ACTIVITIES, PLANNING, URBAN-GROWTH, THREATENED-AND-ENDANGERED-SPECIES  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res. 30577, CF 305276, 305558, 305584, 305650, 305734, 305818; CB 114441  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to restoration and protection of Seattle's  
    creeks; providing for the submission to the qualified electors of the  
    City at a special election to be held in conjunction with the  
    statewide primary on September 16, 2003, of a proposed measure  
    relating to urban creek restoration and daylighting, as an alternative  
    ("substitute") for proposed Initiative Measure No. 80; setting  
    requirements for restoration and daylighting on City-owned property  
    and creek restoration on private property, protecting high-priority  
    creek corridors, providing for financial and other incentives for  
    creek restoration and daylighting; and creating a Creek Restoration  
    Account in the General Fund.  
  
    NOW THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section I.  Creek Restoration Goals and Findings  
  
    1) The City's goals for creek restoration shall be the following:  
  
       A.  Reduce ongoing flooding and property damage caused by creek  
           degradation;  
  
       B.  Improve fish and wildlife habitat;  
  
       C.  Promote salmon recovery;  
  
       D.  Maintain and enhance Seattle's natural drainage infrastructure;  
  
       E.  Ensure free passage for fish in the City's urban areas;  
  
       F.  Provide an aesthetically pleasing open space for Seattle  
           residents; and  
  
       G.  Improve water quality.  
  
       H.  Respect the ecological, cultural, and historical significance of  
           creeks, and their watersheds.  
  
    2) Findings:  
  
       A.  The City of Seattle finds that restoration of a creek corridor is  
           appropriate mitigation for past environmental damage to that creek  
           corridor.  The City of Seattle therefore finds a nexus between major  
           creekside developments and the restoration of creek corridors.  
  
       B.  The City of Seattle finds that culverting or piping of high  
            priority creeks contributes to downstream flooding, deterioration of  
            water quality, and damage to other public values as stated in the  
            purposes for this legislation.  The City, therefore, finds that the  
            preservation of creek corridors for the purpose of possible  
            daylighting is in the public interest and is appropriate mitigation  
            for past environmental damage.  
  
    Section II.   Long-Term Creek Restoration Plan  
  
    A.  The City shall develop a Long-Term Creek Restoration Plan (Plan)  
        in support of the creek daylighting and restoration goals and  
        requirements contained within this Measure, and shall implement said  
        Plan within 20 years.  
  
    B.  The Plan shall set forth the City's objectives, requirements,  
        timelines for action, and financing strategies for creek restoration  
        on private and public property, and restoration and daylighting on  
        public property.  The Plan shall specifically include, but not be  
        limited to, the following elements:  
  
       1.  Objectives.  Develop a statement of the City's objectives for  
           creek restoration and/or daylighting on each creek within the City of  
           Seattle.  The City will develop measurable performance targets for  
           generally accepted physical and biological indicators of creek health.  
           In developing the objectives, the City shall consider any objectives  
           or goals included within existing watershed plans.  
  
       2.  Storm Water Pollution.  Develop a storm water pollution work  
           program that, to the extent possible, is in concert with NPDES permit  
           implementation plans. The City shall evaluate strategies and  
           recommend, if appropriate, additional regulations to further reduce  
           storm water pollution and related impacts to creek ecosystems.  The  
           strategies to be evaluated shall include, at a minimum:  
  
           a. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) and other  
              sustainable building standards as they relate to storm water quality  
              and quantity;  
  
           b. Increased use of infiltration, including broad scale use of  
              pervious and semi-pervious paving surfaces;  
  
           c. Increasing buffer widths;  
  
           d. Wetland restoration; and  
  
           e.  Restrictions on pesticide and fertilizer use on parcels draining  
               to creeks.  
  
       3.  Fish Passage Barriers.  Develop a timeline for the removal of fish  
           passage barriers present on City-owned property and City rights-of-  
           way, and strategies and incentives for the removal of fish passage  
           barriers present on private property, including the funding incentives  
           laid out in Section VII of this Measure.  
  
       4. Floodable Wetland Benches.  Develop a work program to increase  
          floodable wetland benches (floodways) in Seattle creeks to reduce  
          downstream flooding impacts and enhance habitat.  
  
       5.  Daylighting of Creeks on City Property.  Develop a work program to  
           daylight all high-priority creeks within city parks and other City-  
           owned property other than City rights-of-way, within 20 years, as  
           required by this Measure, and specific projects, timelines and funding  
           options.  
  
       6.  Restoration of Creeks on City Property. Develop a work program to  
           restore all other creeks on City-owned property in accordance with the  
           restoration objectives, as defined in subsection (1) of this section,  
           which shall be presented along with a timeline and funding options to  
           the City Council.  
  
       7.  Incentive Plan for Restoration and Daylighting of Creeks Citywide.  
           Develop opportunities and potential incentives for restoration and/or  
           daylighting of creeks on both public and private property, other than  
           the incentives specified in Section VIIA. of this Measure.  
  
       8.  Education and Outreach to Creekside Property Owners.  Develop a  
           work program and timeline for conducting education and outreach to  
           creekside property owners concerning creek and riparian function and  
           best management practices.  
  
       9.  Private/Public Partnerships.   Develop opportunities for  
           public/private partnerships to fulfill the objectives of this plan.  
  
      10.  Interjurisdictional Planning. Develop a method and timeline for  
           specific and proactive joint planning and information exchange with  
           other political jurisdictions sharing responsibilities for creeks that  
           flow entirely or partly within Seattle.  
  
      11.  City Regulations.  Develop a work program to propose updates,  
           which would promote restoration of creeks, to existing creek  
           protection regulations, critical areas regulations and shoreline  
           master program, to be included in the City's required updates to these  
           regulations.  
  
    C.  Integration with Existing Programs.  Where an existing City  
    program or planning document satisfies one or more of these  
    requirements, such program or document may be incorporated into the  
    Plan by reference.  
  
    D.  Public Participation.  The City shall involve the public and  
    interested organizations in creating the draft plan through the public  
    comment process required by the Long-Term Creek Restoration Plan Task  
    Force per Section IV and shall consider public comments and any  
    existing watershed plans.  The Task Force shall hold public meetings  
    and solicit comments from the public and interested organizations on  
    the draft plan as required in Section IV of this Measure.  
  
    E.  Timeline for Completion.  A draft plan shall be prepared and  
    presented to the Council and public within 12 months after enactment  
    of this Measure.  A final plan shall be presented to the City Council  
    for adoption within 18 months after enactment of this Measure.  
  
    F.  Updating Requirements.  The City shall update the Long-term Creek  
    Restoration Plan every seven years.  The City shall hold public  
    meetings and solicit comments from the public and interested  
    organizations for updates to the plan.  
  
    G.  Pesticide Reduction Requirements.  The plan shall incorporate the  
    pesticide reduction plan required in Section (III) of this measure.  
  
    H.  Seattle Public Utilities (SPU) is required to adopt administrative  
    rules to further define the creek restoration requirements in Section  
    VC. of this Measure.  
  
    Section III.  Pesticide Reduction Requirements.  
  
    A.  The City shall develop a plan to phase out the usage of  
    pesticides, herbicides and fungicides on City-owned property and  
    rights-of-way within 200 feet of all creeks, and shall incorporate  
    this plan into the Long-term Creek Restoration Plan.  
  
    B. With the exception of City-owned golf courses, pesticide, herbicide  
    and fungicide use on City-owned property and rights-of-way within 200  
    feet of all creeks shall be phased out within 18 months from Council  
    adoption of the Long-term Creek Restoration Plan.  For City-owned golf  
    courses, pesticide, fungicide, and herbicide use shall be reduced by  
    40% within four years of Council adoption of the Long-term Creek  
    Restoration Plan.  At the end of the four-year period, the City shall  
    adopt a new reduction target that further reduces pesticide, fungicide  
    and herbicide use on City owned golf courses.  
  
    C Use of pesticides, herbicides, and fungicides may be granted for  
    public health emergencies, as declared by the Seattle-King County  
    Health Department.  Any use of pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, or  
    insecticides must be part of an authorized Integrated Pest Management  
    approach and authorized by the Department of Ecology.  
  
    Section IV.  Long-Term Creek Restoration Plan Citizen Task Force  
  
    A.  The Long-Term Creek Restoration Plan Citizen Task Force is created  
    to advise Seattle Public Utilities (SPU) in creating the elements of  
    the Long-Term Creek Restoration Plan.  The Task Force shall meet with  
    SPU on at least a monthly basis to participate in the development of  
    the Long-Term Creek Restoration Plan.  SPU shall provide monthly  
    updates to the Task Force and receive comment and feedback from the  
    Task Force.  SPU shall respond to Task Force comments in writing at  
    the next scheduled meeting of the Task Force.  
  
      The Task Force shall take public comment on the draft plan through  
    at least three (3) public meetings, and shall then provide SPU with  
    further recommendations on the draft plan based on oral and written  
    comments from the public.  SPU shall deliver the draft plan to the  
    Council no later than 12 months after enactment of this Measure.  The  
    Task Force shall be disbanded following Council adoption of the Long-  
    Term Creek Restoration Plan.  
  
    B.  The Task Force shall consist of nine (9) members including:  Two  
    (2) representatives from environmental organizations; one (1)  
    representative from the City's Planning Commission; one (1)  
    representative of a business organization that represents Seattle  
    businesses; four (4) citizens representing different geographic areas  
    of the City in which a high-priority creek is located; and one (1)  
    young adult member selected pursuant to SMC Chapter 3.51.  
  
    C.  Members shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the  
    Council.  Members shall serve without pay.  Seattle Public Utilities  
    shall provide staff and logistical support for the Task Force.  
  
    Section V.  Major Creekside Development Requirements  
  
    A.  Applicants that propose a major creekside development shall be  
    required to restore any above ground high-priority creek concurrent  
    with the development if the parcel on which development occurs  
    contains a high-priority creek or its buffer.  This requirement shall  
    be stated as a condition on any development approval issued to the  
    project.  The applicant shall elect either to carry out restoration  
    under the City's supervision, or to provide funds to the City to carry  
    out the restoration.  
  
    B.  Each applicant for a major creek side development on parcels with  
    high priority creeks shall submit a creek restoration plan as part of  
    its application for development approval.  Seattle Public Utilities  
    shall review and approve or deny the creek restoration plan, before  
    building permits are approved or denied.  Building permits may not be  
    issued without prior approval of the restoration plan by SPU.  Any  
    public notice issued regarding the major development shall elicit  
    comments on the restoration plan and its consistency with the City's  
    creek restoration policies.  The property owner shall be responsible  
    for the long-term maintenance of the restoration unless the City  
    agrees to perform the maintenance.  
  
    C.  Restoration shall include, but not be limited to:  
  
      1.  Planting native vegetation and removing invasive species in the  
          riparian buffer zone;  
  
      2.  Within creek buffers, establishing wetland area, floodable  
          wetland benches, or other means to slow the rate of water, unless  
          topography or other existing structures make such restoration  
          impractical;  
  
      3.  Removal of fish passage barriers, if such barriers exist on the  
          development site.  
  
    D.  Development is prohibited on or within any high priority creek  
    corridor or over any culverted or piped portion of a high priority  
    creek.  At discretion of the applicant, an alternative corridor may be  
    designated on that same parcel, which shall include buffers, to  
    protect the opportunity to daylight the high priority creek.  The  
    alternative corridor must be reasonably able to connect to the  
    existing creek corridor.  
  
       For the purposes of this subsection, an exemption is granted from  
    the requirements of this subsection if the parcel on which major  
    creekside development is to occur exists as a built out environment on  
    the date of enactment of this measure.  A built environment means  
    permanent buildings, or structures that exist on 95% or more of the  
    parcel.  At grade portions of the parcel are not to be considered  
    buildings or structures.  An exemption also applies to the section of  
    Ravenna creek from NE Blakely Street to NE 45th Street, commonly known  
    as University Village Shopping Center.  
  
    Section VI.  Requirements for Creek Restoration and Daylighting on  
    City-owned Public Property.  
  
    A.  Creekside Development on High Priority Creeks.  
  
    1.  The City shall be subject to the same development requirements for  
    a major creekside development on an above ground high-priority creek  
    as private property owners as defined by this Measure, except that a  
    proposed City development plan may not conflict with the Long-Term  
    Creek Restoration Plan or other requirements of this Measure once the  
    Plan is enacted.  
  
    2.   In addition, the City shall be required to daylight any high-  
    priority creek passing through City parks and other City-owned  
    property except street rights-of-way, within 20 years of the enactment  
    of this Measure.  For the purposes of this subsection, an exemption is  
    granted from the requirements of this subsection if the parcel exists  
    as a built out environment as defined in section VD of this measure.  
    The City shall describe its plan to do so in the Long-Term Creek  
    Restoration Plan required by this Measure.  The deadline may only be  
    extended for the following reasons:  
  
       i)  With Council approval; and/or  
  
      ii)  An opportunity exists to daylight the creek in combination with  
           another capital project, either public or private.  In this case, a  
           Memorandum of Agreement outlining the timeline and funding  
           arrangements of the relevant parties must be signed and forwarded to  
           the Council prior to the end of the 20-year period.  
  
    B.  Removal of Fish Passage Barriers.  The City shall be required to  
    remove all fish passage barriers on all creeks on City-owned property  
    and City rights-of-way, with a goal of eliminating all barriers within  
    20 years.  
  
    C.  Monitoring.  The City shall be required to monitor relevant  
    physical and biological indicators of creek health and report on  
    progress towards the objectives described in the Long-Term Creek  
    Restoration Plan on an annual basis.  The results of the monitoring  
    shall be used to determine appropriate restoration and maintenance  
    steps so as to continue to meet the plan objectives.  
  
    D.  Restoration of Above Ground City Creeks.  The City shall be  
    required to restore existing above ground creeks and their buffers,  
    establishing buffers where necessary, on parks and other City-owned  
    property other than street rights-of-way within 20 years of enactment  
    of this Measure.  The specific restoration methods to be used in each  
    case shall be determined partly through the performance targets for  
    physical and biological indicators of creek health as identified in  
    the Plan, and partly through the administrative rules as required in  
    Section II H of this Measure.  
  
    Section VII.  Funding for Creek Restoration  
  
    A.    The City may enter into agreements with any person or entity to  
    participate in a creek restoration or daylighting projects that  
    promote the public purposes of this ordinance.  Under such an  
    agreement, the City may provide public funds or services or assets for  
    the types of projects specified below that are not otherwise required  
    as permit conditions or by applicable law.  Any such agreement shall  
    provide for ongoing maintenance, and shall identify the way in which  
    the project in question furthers the public purposes of this ordinance  
    and other public benefits derived from City participation.  
  
    B. Creek Restoration Account.  
  
    1.  Creation.  A Creek Restoration Account is hereby created in the  
    General Fund in the City Treasury, to be managed by Seattle Public  
    Utilities.  Money in the Creek Restoration Account may be temporarily  
    deposited or invested in such manner as may be lawful for the  
    investment of City money and interest and other earnings shall be  
    deposited in the Account. Money in the Account, including any interest  
    or investment earnings shall be applied solely for the purposes  
    authorized pursuant to this Measure.  The Finance Director is  
    authorized to create other subfunds or accounts as may be needed to  
    implement the purposes of this Measure.  
  
    2.  Funding Source.  An amount of $1.5 million in 2003 dollars, or the  
    maximum amount generated if less than $1.5 million, shall be deposited  
    into the Creek Restoration Account annually.  These funds shall be  
    derived from the General Subfund revenues generated by the utility  
    business tax on future drainage, wastewater, solid waste and water  
    rate increases enacted by the City.  The annual cap shall be adjusted  
    for inflation to equal 2003 dollars. The remaining monies generated,  
    if any, from the utility business tax on rate increases that exceed  
    this amount shall be deposited in the General Fund.  Any unused funds  
    in the Creek Restoration Account shall carry over from year to year.  
  
    3.  Purpose.  It is intended that the Creek Restoration Account serve  
    as an additional source of funding for creek restoration and  
    daylighting projects.  The City is authorized to apply to SPU for the  
    use of Creek Restoration Account funds for projects that are specified  
    in the Long-term Creek Restoration Plan.  In determining the use of  
    Creek Restoration Account funds, priority shall be given first to  
    projects on private property, then City projects, then other public  
    agencies.  Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent,  
    restrict, or reduce the City's use of other funding sources, such as  
    the City's Drainage and Wastewater Fund revenues and General Fund, as  
    permitted by law.  
  
    4.  Operation.  Seattle Public Utilities is authorized to manage and  
    grant Creek Restoration Account funds for qualifying creek restoration  
    and daylighting projects and to adopt administrative rules to guide  
    this process.  A creek related advisory committee will review  
    proposals and make recommendations to SPU regarding funding of  
    projects.  SPU shall use the following funding priorities:  
  
      a) Daylighting high priority creeks;  
  
      b) Voluntary measures taken beyond the requirements of Section V of  
         this Measure on high-priority creeks, if there are environmental  
         benefits of the additional restoration measures;  
  
      c) The removal of fish passage barriers on non-high priority creeks;  
  
      d) Restoration of high-priority creeks on public property; and  
  
      e) Restoration or daylighting on non-high priority creeks.  
  
    Section VIII.  Definitions  
  
    For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:  
  
    A.  "Buffers" mean the area 50 feet on either side of a creek,  
    except that buffer averaging is allowed.  
  
    B.  "Channel" means a passage which may be natural, altered or  
    engineered.  
  
    C.  "Creek" means any naturally occurring watercourse that carries  
    water, either continuously or intermittently, within a defined channel  
    with defined bed and banks that is hydrologically connected to a  
    watercourse or a natural body of water above and/or below the site or  
    is connected to a spring, headwater, lake, wetland, or Puget Sound.  
    Alterations to portions of a natural creek channel, including the  
    construction of conduits, culverts or other improvements, do not  
    affect its status as a creek.  A creek includes piped or culverted  
    segments that are hydrologically connected to a naturally occurring  
    creek above and/or below the site of such pipe or culvert.  The  
    definition of creeks excludes the following:  
  
      a.  Improved roads;  
  
      b.  Constructed rain gutters and drainage facilities fed only by the  
          rain gutters of a building or other roof runoff;  
  
      c.  Curb/gutters, pipes, culverts (other than piped and culverted  
          creek segments that are hydrologically connected to a naturally  
          occurring creek as specified above), fully enclosed storm sewers,  
          inlets, and catch basins;  
  
      d. Constructed biofiltration swales, detention basins, or stormwater  
         attenuation facilities that were not intended to function as creeks or  
         wetlands, and/or were not installed as mitigation for creek or wetland  
         disturbances;  
  
      e. The Duwamish River, and the portion of Ravenna Creek from Green  
         Lake to East Green Lake Drive North, is specifically excluded from the  
         requirements of this Measure.  
  
    The City may maintain maps and other records, reflecting such creeks  
    for the guidance of the public.  
  
    D.   "Creek corridor" means the pipe, culvert, or other engineered  
    system that contains the creek, and the creek buffer.  
  
    E.   "Daylighting" means redirecting a creek segment that is contained  
    within a pipe, culvert, or other engineered system into a natural,  
    open channel, and restoring that segment in accordance with this  
    Measure.  
  
    F.  "Development" means a major creekside development.  
  
    G.  "Fish Passage Barrier" is any culvert failing to meet the  
    standards under WAC 220-110-070(3) or any other impediment to fish  
    passage.  
  
    H.   "Floodable Wetland Benches" means a strip of wetland bordering a  
    creek channel, which is designated to inundate during high stream  
    flows to provide shelter to fish and decrease downstream flooding.  
  
    I.  "High Priority Creeks" means the following creeks Thornton Creek's  
    main stem, north branch, and south branch at least through the North  
    Seattle Community College site, Pipers Creek, Longfellow Creek,  
    Fauntleroy Creek, Taylor Creek, Ravenna Creek, and Schmitz Park Creek.  
  
    J.  "Major Creekside Development" is defined as a project that  
    satisfies each of the following criteria:  
  
      1.  The project is a residential project that involves any new  
          multi-family, new subdivision, or new short-plat over 8 units or that  
          exceed SEPA exemption thresholds, or the project is a commercial  
          project that involve any commercial, mixed-use, or light or heavy  
          industrial development that exceeds SEPA exemption thresholds;  
  
      2.  The parcels involved in the project have a combined acreage  
          greater than one-half acre; and  
  
      3. The project includes at least one such parcel or right of way  
         that contains a high priority creek or its buffer.  
  
    K.    "Riparian" means creek side.  
  
    Section IX. Referral to the Qualified Electors  
  
    This ordinance is a different measure dealing with the same subject  
    and conflicting with Initiative Measure No. 80, as those terms are  
    used in City Charter Article IV, Sections 1.D and 1.G.  This ordinance  
    should therefore be submitted to the qualified electors of the City of  
    Seattle for their consideration on the same ballot with Initiative  
    Measure No. 80.  This ordinance is hereby referred to a vote of the  
    qualified electors of the City at a special city election to be held  
    in conjunction with the statewide primary election to be held in  
    September 2003.  If Initiative Measure No. 80 and this substitute  
    measure should both be approved at the same election, but this  
    substitute measure receives a greater number of affirmative votes than  
    does Initiative No. 80, none of the provisions of Initiative 80 shall  
    be given effect.  
  
    Section X.  Election - Ballot Title.  
  
    The City Council requests that the Director of Records and Elections  
    of King County, Washington, as ex officio Supervisor of Elections,  
    find the existence of an emergency pursuant to RCW 29.13 and call and  
    conduct a special election to be held in conjunction with the  
    statewide primary on September 16, 2003 for the purpose of submitting  
    to the qualified electors of the City the proposition as drafted by  
    the City Attorney pursuant to Section XI of this Ordinance.  The City  
    Clerk is hereby authorized to take those actions necessary to submit,  
    pursuant to City Charter Article IV, section 1, D, this alternative  
    ballot measure to the qualified electors of the City of Seattle for  
    their approval or rejection at a special municipal election, which is  
    hereby called, to be held in conjunction with the statewide primary  
    election to be held in September, 2003.  
  
    Section XI.  Voters' Pamphlet, Ballot Title, and Explanatory  
    Statement.  
  
    The Executive Director of the Ethics and Elections Commission is  
    authorized to take the steps necessary to produce a voters' pamphlet  
    for the election, including for this alternative measure.  The City  
    Attorney shall prepare the ballot title and explanatory statement for  
    this alternative measure as provided by applicable law.  The ballot  
    title shall be formulated so that the choice of the voters is  
    determined in accordance with Article IV, section 1 G of the City  
    Charter.  
  
    Section XII.  Effective Dates.  
  
    Sections I through VIII of this ordinance shall go into effect only if  
    this alternative measure is approved by the qualified electors of the  
    City of Seattle as provided in Seattle City Charter Article IV,  
    Sections 1.F and 1.G.  The other provisions of this ordinance shall go  
    into effect immediately upon passage by the Council.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2003,  
    and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    President of the City Council  
  
    ___________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    3/13/03  
    V#11  
    ta  
