* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114491**   
**Ordinance Number: 121192**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE adding new sections to SMC Chapter 25.08 defining a Residential Disturbance, making it unlawful to allow real property to be used for a Residential Disturbance, providing penalties therefore, providing for abatement of properties where three or more incidents occur within a twelve-month period and amending Sections 25.08.660 and 25.08.820.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 16, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 30, 2006   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 26, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
**Note:** Effective date: 10/3/2003  
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 3, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business. Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** NOISE, RESIDENTIAL-AREAS, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, NUISANCE-ABATEMENT  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114491.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114491  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE adding new sections to SMC Chapter 25.08 defining a  
    Residential Disturbance, making it unlawful to allow real property to  
    be used for a Residential Disturbance, providing penalties therefore,  
    providing for abatement of properties where three or more incidents  
    occur within a twelve-month period and amending Sections 25.08.660 and  
    25.08.820.  
  
    WHEREAS, Seattle is a City comprised of various residential  
    neighborhoods, all of which have their own unique characteristics  
    adding to the vitality and unique nature of our City; and  
  
    WHEREAS, maintaining a high quality of life in our City is of utmost  
    importance to our residents; and  
  
    WHEREAS, excessive noise in our residential neighborhoods diminishes  
    that quality of life;  
  
    NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1. Finding of special conditions.  
  
    The problem of noise in the City has been studied since 1974 and noise  
    control regulations for the City were first adopted by the City  
    Council in 1977.  On the basis of this experience and knowledge of  
    conditions within the City of Seattle, the City Council hereby finds  
    that special conditions exist within the City of Seattle, which make  
    necessary any and all differences between this ordinance and the  
    regulations adopted by the Department of Ecology.  
  
    Section 2.  A new section is added to SMC Chapter 25.08 as follows:  
  
    25.08.225  Residential Disturbance.  
  
      "Residential Disturbance" means a gathering of more than one person  
    at a residential property located in a Single Family or Multifamily  
    zone, as defined in SMC 23.84.048 between the hours of 10:00 p.m.  
    (11:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday nights) and 7:00 a.m. at which  
    noise associated with the gathering is frequent, repetitive or  
    continuous and is audible to a person of normal hearing at a distance  
    of seventy five (75) feet or more from the property.  
  
    Section 3.  A new section is added to SMC Chapter 25.08 as follows:  
  
    25.08.505  Residential Disturbance Violation.  
  
    It is unlawful for any person to knowingly allow real property under  
    one's possession or control to be used for a Residential Disturbance,  
    as defined in Section 25.08.225.  
  
    Section 4. A new section is added to SMC Chapter 25.08 to read as  
    follows:  
  
    25.08.508  Abatement of Chronic Violations.  
  
    A.  A residential property at which three or more violations of SMC  
    25.08.505 occur within any twelve-month period constitutes a nuisance  
    and is subject to an action for abatement pursuant to this section;  
    provided that the person or persons responsible for such violations  
    were residents of the same housing unit, as defined in SMC 22.204.090.  
  
    B.  The City Attorney shall notify the owner and tenant(s) of any  
    property when a tenant or other person has been found to be in  
    violation of Section 25.08.505 at the owner's property.  All notices  
    pursuant to this subsection shall include notification that an action  
    for abatement under this section may be commenced if three or more  
    violations of Section 25.08.505 occur at the property within a twelve-  
    month period and the person or persons responsible were residents of  
    the same housing unit as defined in SMC 22.204.090.  
  
    C.  In addition to any other remedies provided by this Chapter or any  
    other law, an action to abate chronic violations of Section 25.08.505,  
    may be commenced by the City Attorney against the owner and/or  
    tenant(s) of a property following a third or subsequent violation of  
    SMC 25.08.505 at the property within a twelve month period where the  
    person or persons responsible for such violations were residents of  
    the same housing unit as defined in SMC 22.204.090.  An action shall  
    not be commenced under this section until at least thirty (30) days  
    after the mailing of a notice of a finding of a third violation which  
    occurs within a twelve month period.  If during this thirty (30) day  
    period an owner provides written notice to the City Attorney that the  
    owner has filed a legal proceeding to evict the person or persons  
    responsible for three or more violations of Section 25.08.505 and the  
    City Attorney is satisfied the owner will diligently prosecute such  
    eviction action, an action against the owner under this section shall  
    not be filed.  If the court determines that three or more violations  
    of Section 25.08.505 have occurred at a property within any twelve-  
    month period, the court may order any remedy that is reasonably likely  
    to abate future violations, providing that the court should not enter  
    an order prohibiting the rental of a housing unit or units unless  
    other remedies have failed to abate future violations.  
  
    D.  Notices required by this section shall be in writing.  Notice to  
    an owner is sufficient if sent to the address of the owner listed in  
    the records of the King County Recorder.  If the City Attorney knows  
    that a property is managed by a third party property manager, notices  
    required by the section may be sent to such third party property  
    manager.  No inference shall be drawn in a private dispute between a  
    landlord and a tenant or tenants solely because of the lack of a  
    notice from the City Attorney as contemplated by this section.  
  
    Section 5. Section 25.08.660 is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.08.660  Authority of Administrator and Chief of Police.  
  
    Unless provided otherwise by this chapter, the Chief of Police shall  
    be responsible for enforcing Sections 25.08.500, 25.08.505 and  
    25.08.515, the Chief of Police and the Administrator shall be  
    responsible for enforcing Subchapter IV of this chapter, and the  
    Administrator shall be responsible for enforcing the remaining  
    provisions of this chapter.  Upon request by the Administrator or the  
    Chief of Police, all other City departments and divisions are  
    authorized to assist them in enforcing this chapter.  
  
    Section 6. A new section is added to SMC Chapter 25.08 to read as  
    follows:  
  
    25.08.805  Residential Disturbance Penalties.  
  
      A.  Except as provided in subsection B of this section, conduct made  
    unlawful by Section 25.08.505 shall be a Class 1 civil infraction as  
    contemplated by RCW Chapter 7.80 and is subject to a monetary penalty  
    and a default amount of Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00), plus any  
    statutory assessments.  A civil infraction under this section shall be  
    processed in the manner set forth in RCW Chapter 7.80.  
  
    B.  A person who continues to be in violation of Section 25.08.505  
    after receiving a notice of infraction pursuant to subsection A of  
    this section, or who again violates Section 25.08.505 within twenty-  
    four hours after receiving a notice of infraction pursuant to  
    subsection A of this section commits a misdemeanor and any person who  
    is convicted thereof shall be punished by a fine not to exceed Five  
    Hundred Dollars ($500), or by imprisonment in the City Jail for a term  
    not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.  
  
    Section 7. Section 25.08.820 is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.08.820   Penalties cumulative.  The penalties imposed by  
    Sections 25.08.800, 25.08.805 and 25.08.810 shall be in addition  
    to any other sanction or remedial injunctive procedure that may be  
    available at law or equity.  
  
    Section 8.  The Seattle Police Department and the City Attorney shall  
    provide a report to the Council Finance, Budget, Business and Labor  
    Committee regarding the implementation of this ordinance by June 30,  
    2004.  This report shall include: the total number of noise complaints  
    recorded, the total number of incident reports filed, the number and  
    type of violations, the location of violations, and the number of  
    abatement proceedings filed and the outcome of such filings occurring  
    under this ordinance.  
  
    Section 9.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force on  
    whichever is the later of: the effective date of approval by the  
    Department of Ecology; or thirty (30) days from and after its approval  
    by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten  
    (10) days after its presentation, it shall take effect as provided by  
    Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _________________, 2003.  
    _____________________________________  
    President _______ of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________________  
    Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    5/14/03  
    (Ver. 2 )  
    t  
