* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114475**   
**Ordinance Number: 121081**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and ordering the payment thereof.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** February 18, 2003   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: Conlin, Drago, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 28, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 24, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 18, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** FINANCE  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and  
    ordering the payment thereof.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    SECTION 1.  Payment of the sum of Eight Million, Nine Hundred Eighty  
    One Thousand, Nine Hundred Ninety Four and 62/100 dollars  
    ($8,981,994.62) on Summit mechanical warrants numbered, 4000644084 -  
    4000646461, manual or cancellation issues for claims, and electronic  
    financial transactions (EFT) in the amount of Twenty Million, Seven  
    Hundred Ten Thousand, Three Hundred Fifty Nine and 01/100 dollars  
    ($20,710,359.01) are presented for ratification by the City Council  
    per Chapter 42.23 RCA.  
  
    SECTION 2. That any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    SECTION 3. This ordinance, being an ordinance required for the payment  
    of salaries or current expenses, shall take effect and be in force  
    immediately upon its approval, if approved by the Mayor; otherwise it  
    shall take effect at the time it shall become a law under the  
    provisions of the City Charter.  
  
    Passed by the City Council on the 18th day of Feb. 2003 and signed by  
    me in open session in authentication of its passage this Feb. 18,  
    2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      President ___________ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    Shields  
  
    Audited Claims Ordinance  
  
    Feb.13, 2003  
