* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114479**   
**Ordinance Number: 121084**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and ordering the payment thereof.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** February 24, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 28, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 28, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 24, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** FINANCE  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and  
    ordering the payment thereof.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    SECTION 1.  Payment of the sum of Seventeen Million, Nine Hundred  
    Forty One Thousand, Nine Hundred Six and 22/100 dollars  
    ($17,941,906.22) on Summit mechanical checks numbered, 4000646462 -  
    4000648918, plus manual or cancellation issues for claims, and  
    Electronic Financial Transactions (EFT) in the amount of Forty Nine  
    Million, Two Hundred Seventy Eight  Thousand, Eight Hundred Thirty  
    Five and 63/100 dollars ($49,278,835.63) are presented for  
    ratification by the City Council per Chapter 42.23 RCA.  
  
    SECTION 2.  Payment of the sum of Twenty Three Million, Nine Hundred  
    Eighty Five Thousand, Eighty Five and 87/100 dollars ($23,985,085.87)  
    on City General Salary Fund mechanical checks numbered 50761502 -  
    50763605 plus manual checks, agencies checks, and direct deposits  
    numbered 80001 - 89390 representing Gross Payrolls for payroll ending  
    date Feb. 11, 2003 as detailed in the Payroll Summary Report for  
    claims against the City which were audited by the Auditing Committee  
    and reported by said committee to the City Council on Feb. 20, 2003  
    consistent with appropriations heretofore made for such purpose from  
    the appropriate Funds, is hereby approved.  
  
    SECTION 3.  That any act consistent with the authority and prior to  
    the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    SECTION 4.  This ordinance, being an ordinance required for the  
    payment of salaries or current expenses, shall take effect and be in  
    force immediately upon its approval, if approved by the Mayor;  
    otherwise it shall take effect at the time it shall become a law under  
    the provisions of the City Charter.  
  
    Passed by the City Council on the 24th day of Feb. 2003 and signed by  
    me in open session in authentication of its passage this Feb. 24,  
    2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      President ___________ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    S. Davis  
  
    Audited Claims Ordinance  
  
    Feb. 24, 2003  
