* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114474**   
**Ordinance Number: 121098**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 21.49 to modify City Light's rate schedules.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 24, 2003   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: Compton, Drago, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 1, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 1, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 10, 2003   
**Committee:** Energy and Environmental Policy   
**Sponsor:** WILLS   
  
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, UTILITY-RATES, TUKWILA, INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 120811, 120385; Related: Ord 119747, 120149, 120247  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114474.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114474  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE ______  
  
    ORDINANCE ______  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; amending Seattle  
    Municipal Code Chapter 21.49 to modify City Light's rate schedules.  
  
    WHEREAS, the City of Seattle has negotiated a new franchise agreement  
    with the City of Tukwila which states the terms and conditions under  
    which the City of Seattle shall deliver electricity to customers in  
    the City of Tukwila; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the new franchise agreement provides that, in consideration  
    for the City of Tukwila agreeing not to exercise its authority to  
    establish its own municipal electric utility, the City of Seattle  
    shall make payments to the City of Tukwila in amounts equal to  
    certain stipulated percentages of revenue derived from sales of  
    electricity to Tukwila residents; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the new franchise authorizes the City of Seattle to set  
    higher rates for Tukwila customers, subject to certain limitations;  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, on November 24, 1999 the City Council passed Ordinance  
    119747 after a comprehensive rate review, which included separate  
    rates for suburban customers residing outside the Cities of Seattle  
    and Tukwila; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City now intends to establish rates for customers in the  
    City of Tukwila that are based on the terms of the new Tukwila  
    franchise; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City of Seattle intends to review the rates charged to  
    suburban customers in its next comprehensive rate review; and  
  
    WHEREAS, SMC 21.49.081 provides that the impact on City Light's  
    revenue requirements of changes in the power rates charged by the  
    Bonneville Power Administration shall be passed through to City  
    Light's customers; and  
  
    WHEREAS, City Light has already passed through the impact of past  
    changes in Bonneville power rates by increasing energy charges by  
    $0.0055 per kWh ($0.0028 per kWh for low-income customers), effective  
    October 1, 2001, and by decreasing energy charges by $0.0007 per kWh  
    ($0.0004 per kWh for low-income customers), effective April 1, 2002;  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, Bonneville has announced increases in its power rates that  
    will increase City Light's future revenue requirements in an amount  
    that will require an increase of $0.0008 per kWh in the energy  
    charges for all customer classes except low-income classes, for which  
    the required increase is $0.0004 per kWh; NOW THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
      Section 1.  Section 21.49.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is  
    amended to read as follows:  
  
    21.49.020 Definitions.  
  
      A.  The following terms or abbreviations, as used in this chapter,  
    have the following meanings:  
  
      1.  "Applicant" means any person, firm, corporation, government  
    agency, or other entity requesting electrical service from the  
    Department.  
  
      2.  "BPA" means the Bonneville Power Administration or successor  
    agency.  
  
      3.  "City" means The City of Seattle.  
  
      4.  "City customer" means a customer receiving service at a  
    location in the City of Seattle, the City of Tukwila, or in  
    Whatcom County at a site related to the Department's Skagit  
    facilities.  Through April 30, 2003, "city customer" also means a  
    customer receiving service at a location in the City of Tukwila.  
  
      5.  "Customer" means any person, firm, corporation, government  
    agency, or other entity that uses, has used, contracts, or has  
    contracted for electric service from the Department.  
  
      6.  "Department" means the Seattle City Light Department of the  
    City, its Superintendent, or any duly authorized employee of the  
    Department.  
  
      7.  "Duplex" means a detached building containing two (2) dwelling  
    units.  
  
      8.  "Dwelling unit" means a single unit providing complete  
    independent living facilities for one (1) or more persons, including  
    provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.  
  
      9.  "Flat rate" means a fixed charge for a streetlight, floodlight,  
    or a fixed amount of energy consumption.  
  
      10.  "House service" or "house meter" means service for rooms or  
    areas used in common by the occupants of a multiple unit building.  
  
      11.  "KV" means kilovolt.  
  
      12.  "KVA" means kilovolt-ampere.  
  
      13.  "KVarh" means reactive kilovolt-ampere hours.  
  
      14.  "KW" means kilowatt.  
  
      15.  "KWh" means kilowatt-hour.  
  
      16.  "Master meter" means service which supplies electrical energy  
    to more than one (1) dwelling unit or boat moorage and is measured  
    through a single inclusive metering system.  
  
      17.  "Medical life support equipment" is any piece of equipment  
    which is prescribed by a licensed medical physician, generally  
    accepted in the medical industry as life support equipment, and  
    dependent on electrical service for its operation, such as kidney  
    dialysis units, iron lungs, etc.  
  
      18.  "MW" means megawatt.  
  
      19.  "Multiple dwelling building" means any building or any portion  
    of the building which contains three (3) or more dwelling units used,  
    rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied, or which are  
    occupied and have provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking,  
    and sanitation.  
  
      20.  "Net metering program" means a Department program under which  
    eligible customers that operate net metering systems may generate  
    electricity for their own use, sell the excess to the Department and  
    purchase any deficit from the Department.  
  
      21.  "Net metering system" means a fuel cell or a facility for the  
    production of electrical energy that uses as its fuel either solar,  
    wind, or hydropower; has a generating capacity of not more than  
    twenty-five kilowatts; is located on the customer's premises;  
    operates in parallel with the electric utility's transmission and  
    distribution facilities; and is intended to offset part or all of  
    that customer's requirements for electricity.  
  
      22.  "New Large Load" means any service fed from an expanded or a  
    new installation equal to or greater than 12.5 MVA of energized  
    capacity installed within any consecutive 5-year period after August  
    31, 2000.  Installed capacity may be a measure of either dedicated  
    feeder or transformer capacity, with the following qualifications:  
  
        a.  The measure of energized installed transformer capacity  
    excludes any redundant transformer capacity required in a network  
    area.  
  
        b.  Also excluded from the measure of energized installed  
    transformer capacity is any redundant capacity paid for by the  
    customer, that is installed for the purpose of obtaining enhanced  
    reliability.  
  
        c.  When the energized installed capacity is a measure of  
    dedicated feeder capacity, the installation shall not be considered a  
    New Large Load until such time as the consumption is confirmed to be  
    equal to or greater than 10 annual average MW.  The installation  
    shall then be back-billed on Schedule VRC for city customers or  
    VRT for Tukwila customers, on a true-up basis, from the beginning  
    of the twelve-month period when the rolling average consumption  
    equals or exceeds 10 annual average MW.  Customers anticipating  
    becoming a New Large Load have the option of earlier proposing a  
    tailored delivery package pursuant to Section 21.49.059 (C).  
  
        d.  Where a present customer relocates their existing service  
    within the Department's service area, the customer's previous load  
    shall be considered to be transferred, establishing the baseline from  
    which increases will be measured.  
  
      23.  "Peak period" means Monday through Saturday, six (6:00) a.m.  
    to ten (10:00) p.m.  
  
      24.  "Power factor" is the ratio kW to kVA.  
  
      25.  "Premises" means all of the real property at a single  
    geographic location utilized by a customer.  
  
      26.  "RCW" means Revised Code of Washington.  
  
      27.  "Residence" means a single-family dwelling.  
  
        28.  "Suburban customer" means any customer that is not a city  
    customer or a Tukwila customer.  
  
        29.  "Tukwila customer" means a customer receiving  
    service at a location in the City of Tukwila after April 30, 2003.  
  
      2930.  "Underground distribution network" means an  
    electrical distribution configuration in which two or more City-owned  
    secondary cables are bussed together so that the loss of any one  
    associated distribution feeder cable will not interrupt service to  
    the customer.  
  
      3031.  "Var" means volt-ampere-reactive, the unit of  
    measure of reactive power in a circuit.  
  
      B.  The following terms, as used for the purpose of applying rate  
    schedules, have the following meanings:  
  
      1.  "General service" means service to any customer who does not  
    qualify for residential service.  General service rates also apply to  
    the separately metered electricity use by residential customers where  
    that use is not for domestic purposes; or, to a single-metered  
    service which includes domestic uses but for which the major portion  
    of the service is used on an ongoing and regular basis for the  
    conduct of business.  General service uses include, but are not  
    limited to, manufacturing, processing, refining, freezing, lighting,  
    water heating, power purposes, air conditioning and space heating,  
    traffic control systems, and electricity provided to the common use  
    areas of duplex or multiple-dwelling buildings.  
  
          a.  "Standard general service" means service to any general  
    service customer who does not qualify for network general service.  
  
      b.  "Network general service" means service to any general service  
    customer which is provided through an underground distribution  
    network supplied by the Broad Street, Massachusetts Street, or Union  
    Street Substations, except for service to customers who are certified  
    by the Department as having predominantly residential use of  
    electricity.  
  
      2.  "Residential service" means permanent electric service  
    furnished to a dwelling unit that is separately metered for domestic  
    use.  It includes any second service determined to be domestic use  
    and billed on the same residential account.  It excludes dwellings  
    where tenancy is typically of a transient nature such as hotels,  
    motels, and lodges.  It also excludes services which use electricity  
    for both domestic and commercial purposes if the major portion of the  
    service is used on an ongoing and regular basis for the conduct of  
    business.  
  
      Boarding, lodging, rooming houses or group homes shall be  
    considered residential services if not more than four (4) separate  
    sleeping quarters exist for use by other than members of the  
    customer's family.  A "boarding, lodging, or rooming house" means a  
    building other than a hotel which advertises as a boarding, lodging,  
    or rooming house, or is a licensed place of business with rooms  
    available for rent.  A group home is an agency which operates and  
    maintains a group care facility on a twenty-four (24) hour basis in a  
    dwelling unit for the care of not more than ten (10) persons  
    (including minor children of staff residing on the premises).  
  
    Section 2.  Section 21.49.030 A of the Seattle Municipal Code (as  
    amended by Ordinance 120811) is amended to read as follows:  
  
    21.49.030 Residential rates (Schedules RSC, RST and RSS).  
  
    A.  Schedules RSC, RST and RSS are for all separately metered  
    residential services, except those subject to Schedules REC, RET,  
     RES, RLC, RLT and RLS.  
  
    Schedule RSC (Residential: City)  
  
    Schedule RSC is for residential city customers, except those subject  
    to Schedules REC and RLC.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (April - September)  
  
  
    First 10 kWh per day at 4.25 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All over 10 kWh per day but less than or equal to 60 kWh per day at  
    8.58 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 16.53 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (October - March)  
  
  
    First 16 kWh per day at 4.25 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All over 16 kWh per day but less than or equal to 125 kWh per day at  
    8.58 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 16.53 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Base Service Charge:  
  
  
     9.73 cents per meter per day  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE JUNE 14, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (April - September)  
  
    First 10 kWh per day at 4.25 cents per kWh  
  
    All over 10 kWh per day but less than or equal to 100 kWh per day at  
    8.58 cents per kWh  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 10.00 cents per kWh  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (October - March)  
  
    First 16 kWh per day at 4.25 cents per kWh  
  
    All over 16 kWh per day but less than or equal to 167 kWh per day at  
    8.58 cents per kWh  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 10.00 cents per kWh  
  
    Base Service Charge:  
  
     9.73 cents per meter per day  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (April - September)  
  
  
    First 10 kWh per day at 4.33 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All over 10 kWh per day but less than or equal to 100 kWh per day at  
    8.66 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 10.08 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (October - March)  
  
  
    First 16 kWh per day at 4.33 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All over 16 kWh per day but less than or equal to 167 kWh per day at  
    8.66 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 10.08 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Base Service Charge:  
  
  
     9.73 cents per meter per day  
  
  
    Schedule RST (Residential: Tukwila)  
  
  
    Effective May 1, 2003, Schedule RST is for residential Tukwila  
    customers, except those subject to Schedules RET and RLT.  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2003:  
  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (April - September)  
  
  
    First 10 kWh per day at 4.66 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All over 10 kWh per day but less than or equal to 100 kWh per day at  
    8.99 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 10.41 cents per kWh  
  
  
  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (October - March)  
  
    First 16 kWh per day at 4.66 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All over 16 kWh per day but less than or equal to 167 kWh per day at  
    8.99 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 10.41 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Base Service Charge:  
  
  
     9.73 cents per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    Schedule RSS  (Residential: Suburban)  
  
    Schedule RSS is for residential suburban customers, except those  
    subject to Schedules RES and RLS.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (April - September)  
  
  
    First 10 kWh per day at 4.35 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All over 10 kWh per day but less than or equal to 60 kWh per day at  
    8.68 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 16.63 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (October - March)  
  
  
    First 16 kWh per day at 4.35 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All over 16 kWh per day but less than or equal to 125 kWh per day at  
    8.68 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 16.63 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Base Service Charge:  
  
  
    9.73 cents per meter per day  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE JUNE 14, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (April - September)  
  
    First 10 kWh per day at 4.35 cents per kWh  
  
    All over 10 kWh per day but less than or equal to 100 kWh per day at  
    8.68 cents per kWh  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 10.10 cents per kWh  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (October - March)  
  
    First 16 kWh per day at 4.35 cents per kWh  
  
    All over 16 kWh per day but less than or equal to 167 kWh per day at  
    8.68 cents per kWh  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 10.10 cents per kWh  
  
    Base Service Charge:  
  
    9.73 cents per meter per day  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (April - September)  
  
  
    First 10 kWh per day at 4.43 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All over 10 kWh per day but less than or equal to 100 kWh per day at  
    8.76 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 10.18 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (October - March)  
  
  
    First 16 kWh per day at 4.43 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All over 16 kWh per day but less than or equal to 167 kWh per day at  
    8.76 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 10.18 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Base Service Charge:  
  
  
    9.73 cents per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    Section 3.  Section 21.49.040 A of the Seattle Municipal Code (as  
    amended by Ordinance 120811) is amended to read as follows:  
  
    21.49.040 Residential rate assistance (Schedules REC, RET, RES,  
    RLC, RLT and RLS).  
  
    A.  Schedules REC, RET, RES, RLC, RLTand RLS are  
    available to qualified low-income residential customers.  
  
    Schedules REC (Residential Elderly/Disabled: City) and RLC  
    (Residential Low-Income: City)  
  
    Schedules REC and RLC are available for separately metered  
    residential service provided to city customers who show satisfactory  
    proof that they have a City Light residential account and reside in  
    the dwelling unit where the account is billed and that they:  
  
    1. For Schedule RLC, receive Supplemental Security Income pursuant to  
  
    42 USC section 1381 - 1383; or  
  
    2.  For Schedule RLC, reside in a household in which the annual  
    income of all household members together does not exceed two hundred  
    (200) percent of the poverty level for the number of individuals in  
    the household as computed annually by the U.S. Government or the  
    City; or  
  
    3.  For Schedule REC, reside in a household in which the annual  
    income of all household members together does not exceed seventy (70)  
    percent of the Washington State median income for the number of  
    individuals in the household as computed annually by the state or the  
    City and are:  
  
    a.  Blind, or  
  
    b.  Sixty-five (65) years of age or older, or  
  
          c.  Disabled and receive funds from a disability program as a  
    result of a disability that prevents them from working consistent  
    with the requirements of 42 USC SS 401 et seq., or  
  
          d.  Require medical life support equipment which utilizes  
    mechanical or artificial means to sustain, restore, or supplant a  
    vital function.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (April - September)  
  
  
    First 10 kWh per day at 1.79 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All kWh over 10 kWh per day but less than or equal to 60 kWh per day  
    at 3.19 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 8.26 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (October - March)  
  
  
    First 16 kWh per day at 1.79 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All kWh over 16 kWh per day but less than or equal to 125 kWh per day  
    at 3.19 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 8.26 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Base Service Charge:  
  
  
     4.87 cents per meter per day  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE JUNE 14, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (April - September)  
  
    First 10 kWh per day at 1.79 cents per kWh  
  
    All kWh over 10 kWh per day but less than or equal to 100 kWh per day  
    at 3.19 cents per kWh  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 4.00 cents per kWh  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (October - March)  
  
    First 16 kWh per day at 1.79 cents per kWh  
  
    All kWh over 16 kWh per day but less than or equal to 167 kWh per day  
    at 3.19 cents per kWh  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 4.00 cents per kWh  
  
    Base Service Charge:  
  
     4.87 cents per meter per day  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (April - September)  
  
  
    First 10 kWh per day at 1.83 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All kWh over 10 kWh per day but less than or equal to 100 kWh per day  
    at 3.23 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 4.04 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (October - March)  
  
  
    First 16 kWh per day at 1.83 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All kWh over 16 kWh per day but less than or equal to 167 kWh per day  
    at 3.23 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 4.04 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Base Service Charge:  
  
  
     4.87 cents per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    Schedules RET(Residential Elderly/Disabled: Tukwila) and RLT  
    (Residential Low-Income: Tukwila)  
  
  
  
    Effective May 1, 2003, Schedules RET and RLT are available for  
    separately metered residential service provided to Tukwila customers  
    who show satisfactory proof that they have a City Light residential  
    account and reside in the dwelling unit where the account is billed  
    and that they:  
  
    1. For Schedule RLT, receive Supplemental Security Income pursuant to  
  
  
    42 USC section 1381 - 1383; or  
  
  
    2.  For Schedule RLT, reside in a household in which the annual  
    income of all household members together does not exceed two hundred  
    (200) percent of the poverty level for the number of individuals in  
    the household as computed annually by the U.S. Government or the  
    City; or  
  
  
    3.  For Schedule RET, reside in a household in which the annual  
    income of all household members together does not exceed seventy (70)  
    percent of the Washington State median income for the number of  
    individuals in the household as computed annually by the state or the  
    City and are:  
  
  
    a.  Blind, or  
  
  
    b. Sixty-five (65) years of age or older, or  
  
  
    c.  Disabled and receive funds from a disability program as a result  
    of a disability that prevents them from working consistent with the  
    requirements of 42 USC Section 401 et seq., or  
  
  
    d.  Require medical life support equipment which utilizes mechanical  
    or artificial means to sustain, restore, or supplant a vital  
    function.  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2003:  
  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (April - September)  
  
  
    First 10 kWh per day at 1.99 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All kWh over 10 kWh per day but less than or equal to 100 kWh per day  
    at 3.39 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 4.20 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (October - March)  
  
  
    First 16 kWh per day at 1.99 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All kWh over 16 kWh per day but less than or equal to 167 kWh per day  
    at 3.39 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 4.20 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Base Service Charge:  
  
  
     4.87 cents per meter per day  
  
    Schedules RES (Residential Elderly/Disabled: Suburban) and RLS  
    (Residential Low-Income: Suburban)  
  
    Schedules RES and RLS are available for separately metered  
    residential service provided to suburban customers who show  
    satisfactory proof that they have a City Light residential account  
    and reside in the dwelling unit where the account is billed and that  
    they:  
  
    1.  For Schedule RLS, receive Supplemental Security Income pursuant  
    to  
  
    42 USC section 1381 - 1383; or  
  
    2.  For Schedule RLS, reside in a household in which the annual  
    income of all household members together does not exceed two hundred  
    (200) percent of the poverty level for the number of individuals in  
    the household as computed annually by the U.S. Government or the  
    City; or  
  
    3.  For Schedule RES, reside in a household in which the annual  
    income of all household members together does not exceed seventy (70)  
    percent of the Washington State median income for the number of  
    individuals in the household as computed annually by the state or the  
    City and are:  
  
    a.  Blind, or  
  
    b.  Sixty-five (65) years of age or older, or  
  
    c.  Disabled and receive funds from a disability program as a result  
    of a disability that prevents them from working consistent with the  
    requirements of 42 USC Section 401 et seq., or  
  
    d.  Require medical life support equipment which utilizes mechanical  
    or artificial means to sustain, restore, or supplant a vital  
    function.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (April - September)  
  
  
    First 10 kWh per day at 1.84 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All kWh over 10 kWh per day but less than or equal to 60 kWh per day  
    at 3.24 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 8.31 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (October - March)  
  
  
    First 16 kWh per day at 1.84 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All kWh over 16 kWh per day but less than or equal to 125 kWh per day  
    at 3.24 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 8.31 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Base Service Charge:  
  
  
     4.87 cents per meter per day  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE JUNE 14, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (April - September)  
  
    First 10 kWh per day at 1.84 cents per kWh  
  
    All kWh over 10 kWh per day but less than or equal to 100 kWh per day  
    at 3.24 cents per kWh  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 4.05 cents per kWh  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (October - March)  
  
    First 16 kWh per day at 1.84 cents per kWh  
  
    All kWh over 16 kWh per day but less than or equal to 167 kWh per day  
    at 3.24 cents per kWh  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 4.05 cents per kWh  
  
    Base Service Charge:  
  
     4.87 cents per meter per day  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (April - September)  
  
  
    First 10 kWh per day at 1.88 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All kWh over 10 kWh per day but less than or equal to 100 kWh per day  
    at 3.28 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 4.09 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (October - March)  
  
  
    First 16 kWh per day at 1.88 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All kWh over 16 kWh per day but less than or equal to 167 kWh per day  
    at 3.28 cents per kWh  
  
  
    All additional kWh per day at 4.09 cents per kWh  
  
  
  
  
    Base Service Charge:  
  
     4.87 cents per meter per day  
  
    Section 4.  Section 21.49.052 A of the Seattle Municipal Code (as  
    amended by Ordinance 120385) is amended to read as follows:  
  
    21.49.052 Small general service (Schedules SMC, SMT and SMS).  
  
    A.  Small general service is general service provided to customers  
    whose maximum demand is less than fifty (50) kW.  
  
    Schedule SMC (Small General Service: City)  
  
    Schedule SMC is for small general service provided to city customers  
    who are not demand metered or, if demand metered, have in the  
    previous calendar year more than half of their normal billings at  
    less than fifty (50) kW of maximum demand.  Classification of new  
    customers will be based on the Department's estimate of maximum  
    demand in the current year.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.03 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    20.00 cents per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.52 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    20.00 cents per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.57 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    20.00 cents per meter per day  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 6.05 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    20.00 cents per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 6.13 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    20.00 cents per meter per day  
  
    Discounts:  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
    .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2 + .00527 x kWh  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
    Schedule SMT (Small General Service: Tukwila)  
  
    Effective May 1, 2003, Schedule SMT is for small general service  
    provided to Tukwila customers who are not demand metered or, if  
    demand metered, have in the previous calendar year more than half of  
    their normal billings at less than fifty (50) kW of maximum demand.  
    Classification of new customers will be based on the Department's  
    estimate of maximum demand in the current year.  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2003:  
  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 6.43 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    20.00 cents per meter per day  
  
    Discounts:  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
  
    .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2 + .00527 x kWh  
  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
  
  
  
    Schedule SMS (Small General Service: Suburban)  
  
    Schedule SMS is for small general service provided to suburban  
    customers who are not demand metered or, if demand metered, have in  
    the previous calendar year more than half of their normal billings at  
    less than fifty (50) kW of maximum demand.  Classification of new  
    customers will be based on the Department's estimate of maximum  
    demand in the current year.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.14 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    20.00 cents per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.63 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    20.00 cents per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.68 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    20.00 cents per meter per day  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 6.16 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    20.00 cents per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 6.24 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    20.00 cents per meter per day  
  
    Discounts:  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
    .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2 + .00527 x kWh  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
    Section 5.  Section 21.49.055 A of the Seattle Municipal Code (as  
    amended by Ordinance 120385) is amended to read as follows:  
  
    21.49.055 Medium general service (Schedules MDC, MDT, MDS and  
    MDD).  
  
    A.  Medium general service is general service provided to customers  
    who have in the previous calendar year half or more than half of  
    their normal billings at fifty (50) kW of maximum demand or greater  
    and have more than half of their normal billings at less than one  
    thousand (1,000) kW of maximum demand.  Classification of new  
    customers will be based on the Department's estimate of maximum  
    demand in the current year.  
  
    Schedule MDC (Medium Standard General Service: City)  
  
    Schedule MDC is for medium standard general service provided to city  
    customers.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 4.84 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (March - August)  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $0.92 per kW  
  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (September - February)  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.15 per kW  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.33 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.03 per kW  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.38 cents per kWh  
  
  
     Demand Charges:  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.03 per kW  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.86 cents per kWh  
  
  
     Demand Charges:  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.03 per kW  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.94 cents per kWh  
  
  
     Demand Charges:  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.03 per kW  
  
    Discounts:  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
    1756 + .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2+ .00527 x kWh  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
    Schedule MDT (Medium Standard General Service: Tukwila)  
  
    Effective May 1, 2003, Schedule MDT is for medium standard general  
    service provided to Tukwila customers.  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2003:  
  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 6.25 cents per kWh  
  
  
     Demand Charges:  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.03 per kW  
  
    Discounts:  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
  
    1756 + .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2+ .00527 x kWh  
  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
  
  
  
    Schedule MDS (Medium Standard General Service: Suburban)  
  
    Schedule MDS is for medium standard general service provided to  
    suburban customers.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 4.95 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (March - August)  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $0.92 per kW  
  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (September - February)  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.15 per kW  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.44 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.03 per kW  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.49 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.03 per kW  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.97 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.03 per kW  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 6.05 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.03 per kW  
  
    Discounts:  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
    1756 + .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2+ .00527 x kWh  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
    Schedule MDD (Medium Network General Service)  
  
    Schedule MDD is for medium network general service.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.11 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Summer Billing Cycles (March - August)  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.45 per kW  
  
  
    Winter Billing Cycles (September - February)  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.35 per kW  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001:  
  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.60 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.40 per kW  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.65 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.40 per kW  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 2002:  
  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 5.87 cents per kWh  
  
  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.59 per kW  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 6.35 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.59 per kW  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    All energy at 6.43 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    All kW of maximum demand at $1.59 per kW  
  
  
  
  
    Discounts:  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
    1756 + .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2+ .00527 x kWh  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
    Section 6.  Section 21.49.057 A of the Seattle Municipal Code (as  
    amended by Ordinance 120385) is amended to read as follows:  
  
    21.49.057 Large general service (Schedules LGC, LGT, LGS and  
    LGD).  
  
    A.  Large general service is network general service provided to  
    customers who have in the previous calendar year half or more than  
    half of their normal billings at one thousand (1,000) kW of maximum  
    demand or greater, and also standard general service provided to  
    customers who have in the previous calendar year half or more than  
    half of their normal billings at one thousand (1,000) kW of maximum  
    demand or greater and have more than half of their normal billings at  
    less than ten thousand (10,000) kW of maximum demand.  Classification  
    of new customers will be based on the Department's estimate of  
    maximum demand in the current year.  
  
    Schedule LGC (Large Standard General Service: City)  
  
    Schedule LGC is for large standard general service provided to city  
    customers.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 4.89 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    4.15 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.07 per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 5.38 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    4.64 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.07 per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 5.43 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    4.69 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.07 per meter per day  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 5.91 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    5.17 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.07 per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003:  
  
  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 5.99 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    5.25 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.07 per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    * Major holidays excluded from the peak period are New Year's Day,  
    Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and  
    Christmas Day.  
  
    Discounts:  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
    1756 + .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2+ .00527 x kWh  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
    Schedule LGT (Large Standard General Service: Tukwila)  
  
    Effective May 1, 2003, Schedule LGT is for large standard general  
    service provided to Tukwila customers.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2003:  
  
  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 6.27 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    5.53 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.40 per kW  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.07 per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    * Major holidays excluded from the peak period are New Year's Day,  
    Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and  
    Christmas Day.  
  
    Discounts:  
  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
  
    1756 + .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2+ .00527 x kWh  
  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
  
  
  
    Schedule LGS (Large Standard General Service: Suburban)  
  
    Schedule LGS is for large standard general service provided to  
    suburban customers.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 4.99 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    4.25 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.07 per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 5.48 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    4.74 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.07 per meter per day  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2001:  
  
  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 5.53 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    4.79 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.40 per kW  
  
  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum  
    demand, at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.07 per meter per day  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 6.01 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    5.27 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.07 per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 6.09 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    5.35 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.07 per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    * Major holidays excluded from the peak period are New Year's Day,  
    Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and  
    Christmas Day.  
  
    Discounts:  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
    1756 + .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2+ .00527 x kWh  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
    Schedule LGD (Large Network General Service)  
  
    Schedule LGD is for large network general service.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 5.03 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    4.28 cents per kWh  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.67 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.07 per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 5.52 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    4.77 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.67 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.07 per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2001:  
  
  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 5.57 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    4.82 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.67 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
    $10.07 per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 2002:  
  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 5.76 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    5.00 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.84 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:        All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum  
    demand, at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.33 per meter per day  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 6.24 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    5.48 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.84 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:        All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum  
    demand, at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.33 per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 6.32 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    5.56 cents per kWh  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.84 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:        All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum  
    demand, at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $10.33 per meter per day  
  
    * Major holidays excluded from the peak period are New Year's Day,  
    Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and  
    Christmas Day.  
  
    Discounts:  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
    1756 + .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2+ .00527 x kWh  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
    Section 7.  Section 21.49.058 A of the Seattle Municipal Code (as  
    amended by Ordinance 120385)  is amended to read as follows:  
  
    21.49.058 High demand general service (Schedules HDC, HDT,   
    and VRC and VRT.  
  
    A.  High demand general service is standard general service provided  
    to customers who have in the previous calendar year half or more than  
    half of their normal billings at ten thousand (10,000) kW of maximum  
    demand or greater.  Classification of new customers will be based on  
    the Department's estimates of maximum demand in the current year.  
  
    Schedule HDC (High Demand General Service: City  
  
    Schedule HDC is for high demand standard general service  
    provided to city customers who have not signed an agreement to  
    be served under Schedule VRC.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 4.70 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    3.94 cents per kWh  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:               All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m.  
    and ten (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major  
    holidays,* at $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $122.00 per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2001:  
  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 5.19 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    4.43 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:               All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m.  
    and ten (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major  
    holidays,* at $0.40 per kW  
  
  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum  
    demand, at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $122.00 per meter per day  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2001:  
  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 5.24 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    4.48 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:               All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m.  
    and ten (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major  
    holidays,* at $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
    $122.00 per meter per day  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2002:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 5.72 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    4.96 cents per kWh  
  
  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
    Peak:               All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m.  
    and ten (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major  
    holidays,* at $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $122.00 per meter per day  
  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 5.80 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    5.04 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:               All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m.  
    and ten (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major  
    holidays,* at $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $122.00 per meter per day  
  
    * Major holidays excluded from the peak period are New Year's Day,  
    Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and  
    Christmas Day.  
  
    Discounts:  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
    1756 + .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2+ .00527 x kWh  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
    Schedule HDT (High Demand General Service: Tukwila)  
  
    Effective May 1, 2003, Schedule HDT is for high demand standard  
    general service provided to Tukwila customers who have not signed an  
    agreement to be served under Schedule VRT.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2003:  
  
    Energy Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  Energy used between six (6:00) a.m. and ten (10:00) p.m.,  
    Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at 6.08 cents per  
    kWh  
  
  
    Off-peak:  Energy used at all times other than the peak period at  
    5.32 cents per kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:               All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m.  
    and ten (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major  
    holidays,* at $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak maximum demand,  
    at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $122.00 per meter per day  
  
    * Major holidays excluded from the peak period are New Year's Day,  
    Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and  
    Christmas Day.  
  
    Discounts:  
  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
  
    1756 + .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2+ .00527 x kWh  
  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
  
  
  
    Schedule VRC (Variable Rate General Service: City  
  
    Schedule VRC is an optional rate schedule for high demand general  
    service provided to customers eligible to be served under Schedule  
    HDC.  A customer that chooses this rate schedule may not return to a  
    standard rate schedule for a period of one (1) year after electing  
    this schedule, provided that, should a new rate ordinance which  
    changes Schedule VRC be adopted during this time, the customer may  
    request return to a standard rate schedule upon the effective date of  
    the new ordinance.  
  
    At the time a customer elects to take service under Schedule VRC, the  
    customer must choose whether to pay an energy charge as defined in  
    Option 1 - DJ-COB or Option 2 - DJ Mid-Columbia. After choosing an  
    energy charge option, a customer may not choose a different energy  
    charge option for a period of one (1) year except that, should a new  
    rate ordinance which changes Schedule VRC be adopted during this  
    time, the customer may request a change in energy charge option upon  
    the effective date of the new ordinance or may request return to a  
    standard rate schedule upon the effective date of the new ordinance.  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charge:  
  
  
    Option 1 - DJ-COB  
  
  
    (DJ-COB price in  cents/kWh - 0.07 cents/kWh) x 1.1562 + 0.15  
    cents/kWh  
  
  
  
  
    The DJ-COB (Dow Jones-California Oregon Border) price is the  
    appropriate peak or off-peak DJ-COB firm price converted to cents per  
    kWh for the day and time period of the consumption.  Peak and off-  
    peak periods will be as defined by the DJ-COB price rather than as  
    defined in the Demand Charges section of Schedule VRC or elsewhere in  
    the ordinance codified in this section.  In the case that a price is  
    not available for a given day, the average of the preceding and  
    following days' prices will be used.  Peak and off-peak prices will  
    be calculated separately via this method.  
  
    Option 2 - DJ Mid-Columbia  
  
  
    DJ Mid-Columbia Price in  cents/kWh x 1.1562 + 0.15 cents/kWh  
  
  
    The DJ Mid-Columbia (Dow Jones Mid-Columbia) price is the appropriate  
    firm peak or off-peak DJ Mid-Columbia price index converted to cents  
    per kWh for the day and time period of the consumption.  Peak and  
    off-peak periods will be as defined by the DJ Mid-Columbia price  
    index rather than as defined in the Demand Charges section of  
    Schedule VRC or elsewhere in this section.  In the case that a  
    price is not available for a given day, the average of the preceding  
    and following days' prices will be used.  Peak and off-peak  
    prices will be calculated separately via this method.  
  
    Retail Services Charge:  
  
  
    1.41 cents/kWh  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak period maximum  
    demand, at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $122.00 per meter per day  
  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2001:  
  
    Energy Charge:  
  
    Option 1 - DJ-COB  
  
    (DJ-COB price in  cents/kWh - 0.07 cents/kWh) x 1.1562 + 0.15  
    cents/kWh  
  
    The DJ-COB (Dow Jones-California Oregon Border) price is the  
    appropriate peak or off-peak DJ-COB firm price converted to cents per  
    kWh for the day and time period of the consumption.  Peak and off-  
    peak periods will be as defined by the DJ-COB price rather than as  
    defined in the Demand Charges section of Schedule VRC or elsewhere in  
    the ordinance codified in this section.  In the case that a price is  
    not available for a given day, the average of the preceding and  
    following days' prices will be used.  Peak and off-peak prices will  
    be calculated separately via this method.  
  
    Option 2 - DJ Mid-Columbia  
  
    DJ Mid-Columbia Price in  cents/kWh x 1.1562 + 0.15 cents/kWh  
  
  
  
    The DJ Mid-Columbia (Dow Jones Mid-Columbia) price is the  
    appropriate firm peak or off-peak DJ Mid-Columbia price index  
    converted to cents per kWh for the day and time period of the  
    consumption.  Peak and off-peak periods will be as defined by the DJ  
    Mid-Columbia price index rather than as defined in the Demand Charges  
    section of Schedule VRC or elsewhere in this section.  In the case  
    that a price is not available for a given day, the average of the  
    preceding and following days' prices will be used.  Peak and off-peak  
    prices will be calculated separately via this method.  
  
    Retail Services Charge:  
  
    1.46 cents/kWh  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.40 per kW  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak period maximum  
    demand, at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
    $122.00 per meter per day  
  
    * Major holidays excluded from the peak period are New Year's Day,  
    Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and  
    Christmas Day.  
  
    Discounts:  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
    1756 + .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2+ .00527 x kWh  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
    Schedule VRT (Variable Rate General Service: Tukwila)  
  
    Effective May 1, 2003, Schedule VRT is an optional rate schedule for  
    high demand general service provided to customers eligible to be  
    served under Schedule HDT.  A customer that chooses this rate  
    schedule may not return to a standard rate schedule for a period of  
    one (1) year after electing this schedule, provided that, should a  
    new rate ordinance which changes Schedule VRT be adopted during this  
    time, the customer may request return to a standard rate schedule  
    upon the effective date of the new ordinance.  
  
  
    At the time a customer elects to take service under Schedule VRT, the  
    customer must choose whether to pay an energy charge as defined in  
    Option 1 - DJ-COB or Option 2 - DJ Mid-Columbia. After choosing an  
    energy charge option, a customer may not choose a different energy  
    charge option for a period of one (1) year except that, should a new  
    rate ordinance which changes Schedule VRT be adopted during this  
    time, the customer may request a change in energy charge option upon  
    the effective date of the new ordinance or may request return to a  
    standard rate schedule upon the effective date of the new ordinance.  
  
  
    RATES EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2003:  
  
  
    Energy Charge:  
  
  
    Option 1 - DJ-COB  
  
  
    (DJ-COB price in  cents/kWh - 0.07 cents/kWh) x 1.1562 + 0.15  
    cents/kWh  
  
  
    The DJ-COB (Dow Jones-California Oregon Border) price is the  
    appropriate peak or off-peak DJ-COB firm price converted to cents per  
    kWh for the day and time period of the consumption.  Peak and off-  
    peak periods will be as defined by the DJ-COB price rather than as  
    defined in the Demand Charges section of Schedule VRT or elsewhere in  
    the ordinance codified in this section.  In the case that a price is  
    not available for a given day, the average of the preceding and  
    following days' prices will be used.  Peak and off-peak prices will  
    be calculated separately via this method.  
  
  
    Option 2 - DJ Mid-Columbia  
  
  
    DJ Mid-Columbia Price in  cents/kWh x 1.1562 + 0.15 cents/kWh  
  
  
    The DJ Mid-Columbia (Dow Jones Mid-Columbia) price is the appropriate  
    firm peak or off-peak DJ Mid-Columbia price index converted to cents  
    per kWh for the day and time period of the consumption.  Peak and  
    off-peak periods will be as defined by the DJ Mid-Columbia price  
    index rather than as defined in the Demand Charges section of  
    Schedule VRT or elsewhere in this section.  In the case that a price  
    is not available for a given day, the average of the preceding and  
    following days' prices will be used.  Peak and off-peak prices will  
    be calculated separately via this method.  
  
  
    Retail Services Charge:  
  
  
    1.55 cents/kWh  
  
  
  
  
    Demand Charges:  
  
    Peak:  All kW of maximum demand between six (6:00) a.m. and ten  
    (10:00) p.m., Monday through Saturday, excluding major holidays,* at  
    $0.40 per kW  
  
  
    Off-peak:  All kW of maximum demand in excess of peak period maximum  
    demand, at all times other than the peak period, at $0.17 per kW  
  
  
    Minimum Charge:  
  
  
    $122.00 per meter per day  
  
  
    * Major holidays excluded from the peak period are New Year's Day,  
    Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and  
    Christmas Day.  
  
  
    Discounts:  
  
  
    Transformer losses in kWh -  
  
  
    1756 + .53285 x kW + .00002 x kW2+ .00527 x kWh  
  
  
    Transformer investment -  
  
  
    $0.17 per kW of monthly maximum demand  
  
  
  
  
    Section 8.  In consultation with the City Council, City Light shall  
    move expeditiously to reconstitute the Citizen's Rate Advisory  
    Committee (RAC), with the goal of having the RAC re-established by  
    May 15, 2003.  Once reconstituted, City Light and Council staff will  
    work with the RAC to conduct an interim review of the adequacy of  
    current suburban rates.  Council anticipates that the  
  
    recommendations of the RAC on this issue can be presented to the  
    Council's Energy and Environmental Policy Committee by July 1, 2003,  
    or as soon thereafter as possible.  
  
    Section 9.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be  
    separate and severable.  If any one or more of the provisions of this  
    ordinance shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to  
    be contrary to law, then such provision or provisions shall be null  
    and void and severed from the rest of this ordinance, and all other  
    provisions of this ordinance shall remain valid and enforceable.  
  
    Section 10.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 11.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2005, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _________________, 2005.  
  
              _____________________________________  
  
              President _______ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2005.  
  
              ___________________________________________  
  
                Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2005.  
  
              ___________________________________________  
  
                               City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    PJL /BDN  
  
    Tukwila rates  
  
    03/20/03  
  
    V #3  
