* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114589**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the sale of City real property; authorizing the sale of the land and house at 1354 31st Avenue South by public bid; authorizing execution of a Quit Claim Deed to the property; authorizing use of sale proceeds to pay obligations owing to the State of Washington for property acquisition and to pay costs of sale; increasing an appropriation for the Office of Housing in the 2003 Budget; and ratifying and confirming prior actions, all by a vote of three-fourths of the members of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Retired March 26, 2007   
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 9, 2003   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services and Community Development   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER   
  
**Index Terms:** SALES, HOUSING, I-90, CENTRAL-AREA, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, MODERATE-INCOME-HOUSING, ATLANTIC, BEACON-HILL  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 116516, 115362; Res. 27901, 29258  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114589.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114589  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE ________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the sale of City real property; authorizing  
    the sale of the land and house at 1354 31st Avenue South by public  
    bid; authorizing execution of a Quit Claim Deed to the property;  
    authorizing use of sale proceeds to pay obligations owing to the State  
    of Washington for property acquisition and to pay costs of sale;  
    increasing an appropriation for the Office of Housing in the 2003  
    Budget; and ratifying and confirming prior actions, all by a vote of  
    three-fourths of the members of the City Council.  
  
    WHEREAS, the City Council by Resolution 27901 adopted the 23rd day of  
    January 1989 recognized the I-90 Area Development Policies as the  
    basic City policy governing the sale and development of City-owned  
    land in the I-90 project area, and such policies were amended on  
    December 11, 1995, by Resolution 29258; and  
  
      WHEREAS, by Ordinance 115362, the City Council adopted the I-90 Home  
    Ownership Plan, and such plan was amended by Ordinance 118352; and  
  
    WHEREAS, by Ordinance 116516, the City Council authorized the City to  
    enter into a Land Transfer Agreement to purchase certain improved and  
    unimproved real property in the I-90 corridor from the State of  
    Washington, which Land Transfer Agreement was executed on May 5, 1993  
    and subsequently amended, and such ordinance further authorized  
    issuance to the State of promissory notes of the City for the deferred  
    portion of the purchase price of each improved parcel; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the I-90 Home Ownership Plan stated that any house determined  
    to be habitable that is not utilized in this program will be sold at  
    market rate; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
      Section 1.  The following describes the real property to be offered,  
    hereinafter referred to, including all improvements, as the  
    "Property", having parcel tax number 690920-0321:  
  
      The West 46 feet of Lots 1 and 2 in Block 5 of Prospect Terrace  
    Addition to the City of Seattle, as per plat recorded in Volume 3 of  
    Plats, page 33, records of King County, Washington.  
  
      Section 2.  The Office of Housing Director or her designee  
    ("Director") is hereby authorized to offer the Property for sale by  
    public bid, pursuant to the Public Bid Procedure for disposing of  
    surplus real property outlined in "Exhibit A" and, subject to the  
    Director's approval, to accept the highest responsive offer for the  
    purchase of the Property.  After such acceptance the Director is  
    authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, for  
    delivery upon tender of full payment of the sale price, a Quit Claim  
    Deed ("Deed") in substantially the form attached hereto as "Exhibit  
    B", to the bidder whose offer is accepted.  The Director is authorized  
    to execute and deliver such additional documents as may be required or  
    deemed appropriate by the Director in order to complete the sale of  
    the Property consistent with the intent of this ordinance.  
  
    Section 3.  The proceeds of the sale authorized herein shall be  
    deposited in the I-90 Multiyear Subaccount of the Low Income Housing  
    Fund, to be used first, to pay off the remaining balance owed to the  
    State of Washington for the purchase of the Property; second, to  
    reimburse costs incurred and paid by the Office of Housing in  
    connection with the sale; and third, to the extent of any remaining  
    proceeds and in the discretion of the Director, to make payments to  
    reduce obligations to the State for purchase of other I-90 property.  
    In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses for which  
    insufficient appropriations were made, the appropriation for the  
    following in the 2003 Budget is increased from the fund shown as  
    follows, contingent on receipt of proceeds of the sale authorized in  
    Section 2 of this ordinance and limited to the amount of such  
    proceeds:  
  
    Fund              Department            Budget Control         Amount  
                                            Level  
  
    16440 Low        Office of Housing       XZ440                $200,000  
    Income Housing   (OH)  
    Fund  
  
      Section 4.  Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and  
    prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 5.  In accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, the foregoing  
    appropriation is made to meet actual necessary expenditures of the  
    City for which insufficient appropriation has been made due to causes  
    which could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of the  
    making of the 2003 Budget.  
  
      Section 6.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      PASSED by a three-fourths vote of all the members of the City  
    Council the ___ day of _______, 2003, and signed by me in open session  
    in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________,  
    2003.  
  
              _____________________________  
  
              President of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
              ______________________________  
  
              Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of _____________, 2003.  
  
              ___________________________  
  
                    City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    EXHIBIT A:  Public Bid Procedure for Disposing of Surplus Real  
    Property  
  
    EXHIBIT B:  Form of Quit Claim Deed with Grantee's Covenants, Releases  
    and Indemnity  
  
    Eric Pravitz/ewp  
  
    1354 31st Ordinance.doc  
  
    05/15/03  
  
    version #4a  
  
    Public Bid  
  
    Procedure for Disposing  
  
     of  Surplus Real Property  
  
    * The basis for disposing of property shall be by competitive bid.  
    Each property is to be conveyed AS-IS, WHERE-IS, WITH-ALL-FAULTS, AND  
    WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED AS TO ITS  
    CONDITION, ENVIRONMENTAL OR OTHERWISE, OR ITS SUITABILITY OR  
    SUFFICIENCY FOR THE PURCHASER'S INTENDED USES AND PURPOSES.   The City  
    makes no representation or warranty whatsoever as to the condition of  
    the property to be conveyed to the purchaser.  Prospective bidders  
    will be given the opportunity to inspect the Property prior to  
    bidding, and to have any  professional tests or inspections conducted  
    at the bidders' sole expense and risk, subject to such conditions as  
    the Director shall deem appropriate.  
  
    * Conveyance shall be by Quit Claim Deed  
  
    * Bid packets shall include a brief description of each property  
    offered, a neighborhood map, an Offer Sheet and a sample Quit Claim  
    Deed.  Copies of the bid packet and other related documents shall be  
    available to prospective bidders on request.  
  
    * Notice of the sale shall be given in the Seattle Daily Journal of  
    Commerce and other appropriate print media, through direct mail to  
    interested parties, and by such other means as determined to be  
    reasonable, fair, and effective for the marketing of the property,  
    including a posted "For Sale" sign on the site.  
  
    * The successful bidder shall be the one offering the highest,  
    acceptable price and agreeing to the terms of the Quit Claim Deed.  
  
    * An acceptable price shall be a price above a threshold set by OH  
    below which it may reject any and all bids.  The threshold will be  
    based on an opinion of value, and will be made public prior to the bid  
    opening.  
  
    * If the OH Director determines that a competitive environment did not  
    exist, the bid or bids may be rejected.  OH will evaluate whether to  
    re-advertise or to consider other alternatives for the property.  
  
    * Sales will be completed within thirty (30) days after acceptance of  
    the bid.  
  
    * The Director may reserve the right to waive irregularities, to allow  
    corrections, and to extend the period in which bids may be submitted.  
  
    * A bid deposit will be required, and in the event that the winning  
    bidder is unable to close on the transaction in the time allotted,  
    their bid deposit will be retained as liquidated damages.  
  
    2  
  
    EXHIBIT A - Page 1  
  
    After recording, return to:  
  
    Seattle Office of Housing  
  
    57th Floor, 700 Fifth Ave.  
  
    Seattle, WA 98104  
  
    Attn:_______________  
  
    QUIT CLAIM DEED with GRANTEE's COVENANTS, RELEASES AND INDEMNITY  
  
    Reference number of related documents:  N/A  
  
    Grantor: The City of Seattle  
  
    Grantee:  
  
    Summary Legal Description: Ptn. Lots 1 and 2, Blk. 5, Prospect Terrace  
    Add., v. 3, p. 33  
  
    Full legal description on p. 1  
  
    Assessor's Property Tax Parcel Account Number: 6909200321  
  
    Grant.  The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation  
    ("Grantor"), hereby conveys and quit claims to        ("Grantee"), for  
    and in consideration of the sum of          Dollars ($.00), and  
    subject to the COVENANT set forth below, that certain real property  
    located in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, and legally  
    described as follows  
  
    ("Property"):  
  
    The West 46 feet of Lots 1 and 2 in Block 5 of Prospect Terrace  
    Addition to the City of Seattle, as per plat recorded in Volume 3 of  
    Plats, page 33, records of King County, Washington.  
  
    GRANTEE's COVENANTS, RELEASES AND INDEMNITY ("Covenant")  
  
    The Property described herein is conveyed AS-IS, WHERE-IS, WITH-ALL-  
    FAULTS, AND WITHOUT ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS  
    OR IMPLIED, AS TO ITS CONDITION, ENVIRONMENTAL OR OTHERWISE, OR ITS  
    SUITABILITY OR SUFFICIENCY FOR THE GRANTEE'S INTENDED USES AND  
    PURPOSES.    Grantee acknowledges that adverse physical, economic or  
    other conditions (including without limitation, adverse environmental  
    soils and ground-water conditions), either latent or patent, may exist  
    on the Property and assumes Grantor's responsibility for all  
    environmental conditions of the Property, known or unknown, including  
    but not limited to responsibility, if any, for investigation, removal  
    or remediation actions relating to the presence, release or threatened  
    release of any Hazardous Substance or other environmental  
    contamination relating to the Property.   Grantee also releases,  
    covenants not to sue, and shall indemnify, defend, and hold Grantor  
    and its past, present and future officials, employees, and agents,  
    harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, penalties,  
    fees, damages, losses, expenses (including but not limited to fees and  
    costs of regulatory agencies, attorneys, contractors and consultants),  
    and liabilities arising out of, or in any way connected with, the  
    condition of the Property including but not limited to any alleged or  
    actual past, present or future presence, release or threatened release  
    of any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the  
    Property, or any portion thereof or improvement thereon, from any  
    cause whatsoever; it being intended that Grantee shall so indemnify  
    Grantor and such personnel without regard to any fault or  
    responsibility of Grantor or Grantee.   The obligation to complete all  
    environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property  
    and the acknowledgements, releases, and covenants herein touch and  
    concern the Property, are intended to run with the land and bind  
    Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the  
    benefit of Grantor and its successors and assigns.  
  
    For purposes of this Covenant, the term "Hazardous Substance" shall  
    mean petroleum products and compounds containing them; flammable  
    materials; radioactive materials; polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs")  
    and compounds containing them; lead, asbestos or asbestos-containing  
    materials in any friable form; underground or above-ground storage  
    tanks; and any substance or material that is now is or hereafter  
    becomes regulated under any federal, state, or local statute,  
    ordinance, rule, regulation, or other law relating to environmental  
    protection, contamination or cleanup.  
  
    Grantee's release and covenant not to sue shall include both claims by  
    Grantee as original plaintiff against Grantor and any cross-claims,  
    third-party claims or other claims against Grantor by Grantee based  
    upon claims made against Grantee by any third parties.  
  
    The terms of this Covenant shall apply regardless of whether or not  
    Grantee is culpable, negligent or in violation of any law, ordinance,  
    rule or regulation.  Nothing herein shall release, discharge or affect  
    any rights or causes of action that Grantor or Grantee may have  
    against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly  
    stated herein, and each of the parties reserves all such rights  
    including, but not limited to, claims for contribution or cost  
    recovery relating to any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or  
    emanating from the Property.  
  
    Executed this ____day of ___________, 200    , pursuant to Ordinance  
    of The City of Seattle.  
  
                THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
                By:  
  
                ______________________________  
  
    Director, Office of Housing  
  
    Approved as to form by Purchaser:  
  
                 By:  
  
            Print Name:  
  
                Print Title:  
  
      Grantee:  
  
                 By:  
  
            Print Name:  
  
                Print Title:  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
                                                    ) ss  
  
    COUNTY OF KING         )  
  
      On this ____ day of __________, 200    , before me, the undersigned,  
    a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned  
    and sworn, personally appeared ___________________________, to me  
    known to be the _______________ of the Office of Housing of THE CITY  
    OF SEATTLE, the municipal corporation on behalf of which the within  
    and foregoing instrument was executed, and acknowledged said  
    instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal  
    corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath  
    stated that s/he was authorized to execute said instrument.  
  
      WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in  
    this instrument above written.  
  
      (Signature)            (Print or Type Name)  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at  
    .  
  
    My commission expires ____________.  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
                                                    ) ss  
  
    COUNTY OF KING         )  
  
      On this ____ day of __________, 200    , before me, the undersigned,  
    a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned  
    and sworn, personally appeared ______________________, to me known to  
    be the __________________________ of ________________________,  the  
    _________________________ on behalf of which the within and foregoing  
    instrument was executed, and acknowledged said instrument to be the  
    free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and  
    purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that s/he was  
    authorized to execute said instrument.  
  
      WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in  
    this instrument above written.  
  
      (Signature)            (Print or Type Name)  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at  
    .  
  
    My commission expires ____________.  
  
    (seal or stamp)  
  
    3  
  
      Exhibit B to Ordinance -- 1  
