* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114547**   
**Ordinance Number: 121149**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Fleets & Facilities Department authorizing execution of a lease agreement with Schnitzer Investment Corp., a Washington corporation, for warehouse space at 3807 2nd Avenue South.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 12, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 22, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 22, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 28, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** LEASES, FLEETS-AND-FACILITIES-DEPARTMENT  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114547.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114547  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Fleets & Facilities Department  
    authorizing execution of a lease agreement with Schnitzer Investment  
    Corp., a Washington corporation, for warehouse space at 3807 2nd  
    Avenue South.  
  
    WHEREAS, City-owned facilities cannot accommodate the warehousing  
    needs of the Department of Executive Administration for storage of  
    records and supplies, surplus furniture and equipment; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the facility currently leased by City to accommodate said  
    warehousing needs has been sold to an owner who wishes to redevelop  
    the property; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City received a proposal from Schnitzer Investment Corp.  
    for a warehouse facility superior to the currently leased  facility,  
    offering  a lower rental rate and the ability to co-locate with  
    warehouses leased for the Seattle Fire Department and Seattle Public  
    Utilities; and  
  
    WHEREAS, SMC 3.18.240  requires City Council approval for any  
    warehouse space lease in excess of nine thousand square feet in a  
    single structure; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  As requested by the Fleets & Facilities Director and  
    recommended by the Mayor, said Director is hereby authorized to  
    execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, a lease agreement  
    with Schnitzer Investment Corp., a Washington corporation,  
    substantially in the form of  Exhibit "1" attached hereto, and  
    providing for occupancy by The City of Seattle of a portion of the  
    real property commonly known as 3807 2nd Avenue South in Seattle.  
  
    Section 2.  The rental payments contemplated by the terms of the lease  
    agreement authorized in Section 1 hereof shall be charged to the  
    appropriate expenditure allowance or allowances in the budget of the  
    Fleets & Facilities Department.  
  
    Section 3.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
      Section 4.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed  
    by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day  
    of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Exhibit 1:  Lease Agreement  
  
    Barbara Brannan/et  
  
    Warehouse-ord.doc  
  
    April 14, 2003  
  
    version 2a  
  
    - 1 -  
  
    Exhibit 1  
  
      LEASE AGREEMENT  
  
      PART A - SIGNATURE FORM  
  
    PARTIES  This Lease Agreement  ("Lease") is entered into by and  
    between SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP., an Oregon corporation  
    (hereinafter referred to as the "Lessor"), and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a  
    municipal corporation of the State of Washington, as Lessee,  
    (hereinafter referred to as the "City").  
  
    PREMISES  The Lessor hereby leases to the City, and the City hereby  
    leases from the Lessor, the following described Premises:  
  
    approximately 26,989 square feet of warehouse space and approximately  
    5,000 square feet of office space as illustrated on Exhibit A  
    (hereinafter referred to as the "Premises").  
  
    The Premises are located on certain real property commonly known as  
    3807 Second Av S. in Seattle, King County, Washington, and are a  
    portion of   the Building located on Lots 1 through 12, inclusive,  
    Block B, Northern Pacific's First Avenue Industry Sites, according to  
    the plat recorded in Volume 34 of Plats, page 43, in King County,  
    Washington, described as follows:  
  
    Commencing at the Northwest corner of Lot 1, Block A, of said plan,  
    thence South along the East margin of First Avenue South, as  
    presently established 100 feet in width, 533.02 feet to a point,  
    hereinafter referred to as "Point A;" thence East from said "Point  
    A," along a line perpendicular to said East margin, 333.50 feet to a  
    point, said point hereinafter referred to as "Point B," said point  
    also being the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING to the parcel herein  
    described; thence North from said "Point B" along a line parallel to  
    the East margin of said First Avenue South, 639.73 feet to the North  
    Line of said Block B, being a point on a curve, the center of which  
    bears North 34(59'49" West, 590.2 feet; thence Easterly along the  
    Northerly line of said Block B, being a 590.20 foot radius curve to  
    the left, an arc distance of 141.56 feet to the most Northerly corner  
    of said Block B, being a point on a curve the center of which bears  
    South 26(31'56" West, 100 feet; thence Easterly along the Northerly  
    line of said Block B, being a 100.00 foot radius curve to the right,  
    an arc distance of 34.08 feet to the West margin of Second Avenue  
    South, as conveyed to the City of Seattle by deed recorded under King  
    County Recording Number 3568115; thence South, along said West  
    margin, 713.9 feet, more or less, to an intersection with Easterly  
    production of the Line connecting said "Points A and B;" thence West,  
    along said production, 132.5 feet, more or less, to the TRUE POINT OF  
    BEGINNING; (Also known as portion of Parcel 2, King County Short Plat  
    No. 133, as recorded under King County Recording Number 7411060348).  
  
    PURPOSES  The Premises shall be used as warehouse and associated  
    office space and for such other municipal purposes as the City may  
    deem consistent therewith.  The City may permit other governmental  
    agencies and community groups approved by the City to use and occupy  
    the Premises under City supervision and control, for which expanded  
    use the written consent of Lessor shall not be required.  
  
    TERM  The term of this lease shall commence on May 1, 2003,  
    ("Commencement Date") and expire on April 30, 2008.  
  
    RENT  In consideration of this lease and the Lessor's performance of  
    all covenants and agreements contained herein, the City shall pay to  
    the Lessor as the monthly installments of rental for said Premises on  
    or before the first day of the calendar month, the sum of:  
  
    UTILITIES AND  
  
    OTHER SERVICES  Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B, Section 3  
    hereof, the Lessor shall invoice the City  monthly for all expenses  
    associated with the Premises, including, but not limited to property  
    taxes, building insurance, utilities, management fees, and  
    maintenance of the common areas. To the extent such expenses pertain  
    to the Premises and other property, then the City's share of such  
    expenses shall be prorated accordingly.  City's payment pursuant to  
    this Section shall be due thirty (30) days from the date of such  
    invoice.  
  
    IMPROVEMENTS  Lessor shall pay for and construct or otherwise provide  
    improvements to the Premises ("Lessor Improvements") as detailed on  
    Exhibit "B" to this Lease Agreement.  Lessor shall  complete the  
    foregoing improvements within five weeks after the Commencement Date.  
    Upon completion, Lessor shall notify City in writing, supported by  
    documentation, of the total cost of such improvements ("Documented  
    Improvements").  All improvements shall be done in accordance with  
    existing regulations and codes, including regulations pertaining to  
    the Americans with Disabilities Act.   The City shall be responsible  
    for any improvements not described on Exhibit "B" or Exhibit "B-1".  
  
    ALLOWANCE  In addition to paying for and providing the Lessor  
    Improvements, the Lessor shall  pay to City   a cash allowance of  
    $50,000.00 ("Tenant  Allowance")    without any restrictions  
    whatsoever.  Lessor shall pay to City the Tenant Allowance on the  
    Commencement Date.  
  
    AGREEMENT  
  
    CONTENTS  This lease consists of this Part A - Signature Form;  Part  
    B - General Terms and Conditions; and Exhibits A (Floor Plan) and B  
    (Tenant Improvements) and B-1 (Tenant Improvement Costs), all of  
    which, by this reference, are incorporated herein, and embodies the  
    entire agreement of the parties hereto.  There are no other  
    understandings or agreements, written or oral, between the parties  
    relating to the subject matter hereof.  
  
    EFFECTUATION  
  
    OF AGREEMENT  In order to be effective, this lease must be (1) signed  
    by an authorized representative of the Lessor and returned to the  
    City at the address set forth below, and (2)  signed by the  City's  
    Fleets and Facilities Director pursuant to ordinance authority.  
  
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have affixed their  
    signature below:  
  
    LESSEE,            LESSOR,  
  
    THE CITY OF SEATTLE          SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP.  
  
    By_____________________________________  
    By:_______________________________  
  
                    John Franklin             Kenneth M. Novack  
  
                    Fleets and Facilities Director      President  
  
    Authorizing Ordinance _______________  
  
    City's address for all communications:     Lessor's address for all  
    communications:  
  
    Fleets and Facilities Division       SIC Asset Manager  
  
    618 Second Avenue, 14th Floor      Schnitzer Northwest, LLC  
  
    Seattle, Washington  98104      225 108th Ave. NE, Suite 400  
  
                  Bellevue, Washington  98004  
  
    File:  3807 2nd Av S Lease 041403  
  
    STATE OF OREGON     )  
  
            )   ss.  
  
    COUNTY OF MULTNOMAH  )  
  
      I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that Kenneth M.  
    Novack is the individual who appeared before me, and said individual  
    acknowledged that  he signed this instrument, on oath stated that he  
    was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the  
    Vice President of the SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP. to be the free and  
    voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in  
    the instrument.  
  
    Dated: _____________________________  
  
    ________________________________________________  
  
           (Notary Signature)  
  
    ________________________________________________  
  
              (Print Name)  
  
                      NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of  
  
                      Oregon, residing at ____________________.  
  
                       My appointment expires ________________.  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
            )   ss.  
  
    COUNTY OF KING    )  
  
      I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that John  
    Franklin is the person who appeared before me, and said person  
    acknowledged that he signed this instrument, on oath stated that he  
    was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the  
    Fleets & Facilities Director of THE CITY OF SEATTLE to be the free  
    and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned  
    in the instrument.  
  
    Dated: _____________________________  
  
    _____________________________________________  
  
        (Notary Signature)  
  
    _____________________________________________  
  
                                  (Print Name)  
  
                      NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of  
  
                      Washington, residing at ________________.  
  
                      My appointment expires ________________.  
  
      LEASE AGREEMENT  
  
      PART B - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS  
  
    1.  POSSESSION.  In the event of the inability of the Lessor to  
    deliver possession of the Premises, or any portion thereof, at the  
    time of the commencement of the term of this lease the Lessor shall  
    not be subject to any liability therefore, but in such case the City  
    shall not be liable for any rent or other expense related to the  
    Premises until such time as the Lessor can deliver possession.  
  
    2.  ACCESS.  The City shall allow the Lessor or the Lessor's agent  
    free access at all reasonable times to said Premises to inspect,  
    clean, or make repairs, additions or alterations to the Premises or  
    any connected property owned by or under the control of the Lessor.  
    This provision shall not be construed as an agreement on the part of  
    the Lessor to make such repairs, additions or alterations nor a  
    waiver of the City's right of quiet enjoyment.  All such work by the  
    Lessor shall be undertaken in a way so as to minimize interference  
    with the City's use of the Premises.  
  
    3.  UTILITIES AND OTHER SERVICES.    (See Part A)  
  
    4.  CARE OF PREMISES.  The Premises shall at all times be kept and  
    used in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington and  
    ordinances of The City of Seattle, and in accordance with all duly  
    authorized directions, rules, and regulations of the Health Officer,  
    Fire Marshall or other proper officer of The City of Seattle; and the  
    City will not permit any waste, damage or injury to the Premises, use  
    or permit in said Premises anything that will increase the rate of  
    fire insurance thereon, maintain anything that may be dangerous to  
    life or limb, permit any objectionable noise or odor to escape or to  
    be emitted from said Premises, or permit anything to be done upon  
    said Premises that in any way will tend to create a nuisance.  
  
    5.  MAINTENANCE - REPAIRS.  The Premises have been inspected by both  
    parties and are accepted by the City in their existing condition as  
    of the commencement date of this lease, without reservation except  
    for improvements as described on Exhibit B and Exhibit B-1 and latent  
    defects or faulty construction of the Premises not discoverable by  
    inspection at the time of taking possession.  The Lessor shall be  
    responsible for the repair of any latent defect or faulty  
    construction, and any repair to any outside wall of the Premises or  
    its roof or foundation;  all other repairs to the Premises and its  
    systems (including HVAC) shall be the City's responsibility and  at  
    the City's sole expense.  
  
    6.  DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION.  In the event the Premises are damaged by  
    fire, earthquake, act of war, or other extraordinary casualty to such  
    an extent as to render the same untenantable in whole or in a  
    substantial part thereof, or are destroyed, it shall be optional with  
    the Lessor to repair or rebuild the same, and after the happening of  
    any such event, the City shall give the Lessor or the Lessor's agent  
    written notice thereof within forty-eight (48) hours of such  
    occurrence.  The Lessor shall have not more than thirty (30) days  
    after the date of such notification to notify the City in writing of  
    the Lessor's intentions to repair or rebuild said Premises; and if  
    the Lessor elects to repair or rebuild said Premises, the Lessor  
    shall prosecute the work of such repairing or rebuilding without  
    unnecessary delay.  During any period in which the Premises are  
    rendered unfit for occupancy because of any such casualty, the rent  
    of said Premises shall be abated in the same ratio that the portion  
    of the Premises rendered for the time being unfit for occupancy bears  
    to the whole of the Premises.  In the event the building in which the  
    Premises are located is destroyed or is damaged (even though the  
    Premises hereby leased is not damaged thereby) to such an extent  
    that, in the opinion of the Lessor, it is not practicable to repair  
    or rebuild, then the Lessor may, at its option, terminate the lease  
    by providing written notice thereof to the City within thirty (30)  
    days after such damage or destruction has been determined to be  
    irreparable.  
  
    7.  COMPLIANCE WITH LAW  
  
        (a)  General Requirement.  The Lessor shall perform and comply  
    with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of  
    Washington; the Charter and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and  
    rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative  
    agencies and the officers thereof..  
  
       (b)  Licenses and Similar Authorizations.  The Lessor and/or the  
    City, when applicable, shall secure and maintain in full force and  
    effect during the term of this Agreement, all required licenses,  
    permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all  
    requirements thereof.  
  
       (c)  Taxes.  The Lessor shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes,  
    levies and assessments on the Premises.  The City shall reimburse  
    Lessor for the pro rata share of said taxes applicable to the  
    Premises.  
  
       (d)  Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action. The Lessor shall  
    comply with all Federal, State and local laws and ordinances  
    prohibiting discrimination with regard to race, age, color, national  
    origin, ancestry, creed, religion, political ideology, sex, sexual  
    orientation, marital status, gender identity, or the presence of any  
    sensory, mental or physical handicap.  SMC 20.44.040 is hereby  
    incorporated by reference.  
  
    8.  INDEMNIFICATION.  The Lessor shall indemnify, defend (including  
    attorneys fees and costs), and  hold City harmless from all claims  
    for accident or injury caused to persons or property by the fault or  
    neglect of the Lessor or any of its employees or agents; or occurring  
    in, on, or about any portion of the structure of which the Premises  
    form a part that is under the sole control of the Lessor; or caused  
    by any fault or defect inherent in said structure or any defect in or  
    malfunction thereof not discernible by reasonable inspection.  The  
    City will indemnify, defend (including attorneys fees and costs), and  
    hold the Lessor harmless from all claims for accident or injury  
    caused to persons or property by the fault or neglect of the City or  
    any of its employees or agents, to the extent of the fault or neglect  
    of the City; or occurring in, on, or about any portion of the  
    Premises that is under the sole control of the City, unless due to  
    the fault or neglect of the Lessor or any of its employees or agents;  
    All personal property of the City on said Premises shall be at the  
    risk of and the responsibility of the City.  Reasonable attorney fees  
    and other court costs and  expenses are included within the scope of  
    this indemnity.  The agreements of the parties in this Section 8  
    shall survive expiration or earlier termination of the Lease.  
  
    9.  SIGNS.  The City may place identification signs upon the  
    Premises, subject to the prior written approval of the Lessor; and  
    permission to place such signs shall not be unreasonably withheld by  
    the Lessor.  The Lessor shall have the right to place and maintain  
    "For Rent" signs in a conspicuous place on said Premises and to show  
    the Premises to prospective tenants for thirty (30) days prior to the  
    expiration of this lease.  
  
    10.  ALTERATIONS, ADDITIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS.  
  
          (a)  The City shall not make or cause to be made any  
    alteration, addition or improvement to said Premises without first  
    obtaining the written consent of the Lessor for such work.  Any  
    alteration, addition or improvement that is made solely for the  
    convenience of the City or any of its employees or agents, or of the  
    program to be conducted on the Premises shall be at the sole cost and  
    expense of the City or the program being conducted on the Premises  
    except for an alteration, addition or  improvement occasioned by  
    inherent damage or a latent defect in the Premises or of the  
    structure in which the Premises are located, the cost of which  
    alteration, addition or improvement shall be as agreed upon by the  
    City and the Lessor.  
  
          (b)  The Lessor shall pay the cost of all alterations,  
    additions, and improvements initiated for the Lessor's convenience,  
    and save the City free and harmless from damage, loss or expense  
    arising out of said alterations performed by the Lessor or on its  
    behalf.  
  
          (c)  If any of the alterations, additions and improvements as  
    installed by the City may be removed without disturbance,  
    molestation, or injury to the Premises, the City at its option, may  
    remove or cause to be removed said alterations, additions and  
    improvements at the City's own expense or may surrender the same with  
    the Premises to remain as a part thereof and to become the property  
    of the Lessor upon the expiration or termination of this lease.  In  
    the event said alterations, additions and improvements are  
    surrendered, the Lessor and the City shall agree as to their value,  
    and if they constitute a benefit to the Premises, compensation in the  
    agreed amount therefor shall be made to the City within fifteen (15)  
    days of said surrender.  If the City and the Lessor cannot agree upon  
    compensation for said benefit to the Premises, the City shall remove  
    said alterations, additions and improvements, and shall repair any  
    damage caused by such removals.  
  
          (d)  The City shall not operate or install any electrical  
    equipment or machinery (other than ordinary office equipment), or  
    replace or relocate any electric light fixture without the written  
    consent of the Lessor.  
  
    11.  TERMINATION.  
  
          (a)  Notwithstanding any other provision herein, in the event  
    that either party to this lease defaults in the performance of any of  
    the terms, provisions, covenants and agreements to be kept, observed  
    and performed as provided in the following sections:  
  
    Part A -  TERM  Part B -  section4 CARE OF PREMISES  
  
        RENT    section5 MAINTENANCE-REPAIRS  
  
                section3  UTILITIES & OTHER SERVICES  
  
    and such default is not corrected within thirty (30) days after the  
    receipt of written notice thereof from the other party, or such  
    longer period if more time is reasonably required to correct such  
    default, then the non-breaching party may, at its option, immediately  
    terminate this lease, without notice or other proceedings, and in  
    such event the Lessor may also re-enter and take possession of the  
    Premises.  Damages may be claimed for a default in the performance of  
    the other lease obligations not specified above, but such default  
    shall not be cause for termination of this lease unless such default  
    is repeated upon three or more occasions and a notice to comply is  
    provided after each such instance.  
  
    (b)  It is understood that funds for the payment of the rent herein  
    are allocated out of monies received by the City from tax sources  
    and/or other governmental entities and that funding for the program  
    that occupies the Premises can be increased, changed, decreased, or  
    eliminated by administrative (Mayor) or legislative (City Council)  
    action.  Therefore, it is agreed by the Lessor and the City that  
    notwithstanding any other provision herein, in the event said funding  
    and/or program is increased, changed, decreased, or eliminated, or in  
    the judgment of the administrative (Mayor) or legislative (City  
    Council) authority of the City, continuation of the Lease Agreement  
    to its full term would be an unnecessary expenditure of public funds,  
    then the City may terminate this Lease Agreement without further  
    obligation to the Lessor, after making available to the Lessor  
    reasonable documentation of such administrative (Mayor) or  
    legislative (City Council) action and after providing the Lessor with  
    written notice of such termination at least ninety (90) days prior to  
    the effective date thereof.  In the event the City elects to  
    terminate pursuant to this Section 11(b), the City shall pay to the  
    Lessor upon the date of termination a termination  fee equal to any  
    unamortized cost of  Documented Improvements, expressly excluding the  
    Tenant Allowance. Such amortization shall be calculated on a  
    straight-line basis over the Term of this Lease Agreement, at an  
    interest rate equaling six  percent (6%) per year.  
  
    12.  SURRENDER OF PREMISES.  Upon the expiration or termination of  
    this lease, including any extensions thereof, whichever is earlier,  
    the City shall quit and surrender said Premises and all keys thereto,  
    without notice and in as good condition as received at the  
    commencement of the term hereof except for ordinary wear and tear;  
    damage or destruction by fire or other casualty or circumstances  
    uncontrollable by the City; property damaged, removed, or destroyed  
    by the Lessor or its agents; latent defects or faulty construction of  
    the structure of which the Premises comprise a part, not discoverable  
    by inspection at the time of taking possession; and alterations,  
    additions or improvements made to the Premises by the City.  
  
    13.  ADJUDICATION.  This lease shall be construed under all of the  
    applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations of the  
    United States of America, the State of Washington, and The City of  
    Seattle.  In the case of a dispute between the parties, jurisdiction  
    over and venue of such dispute shall be with the Superior Court of  
    King County, Washington.  
  
    14.  NOTICES.  All notices to be given by either of the parties  
    hereto to the other party, including but not limited to invoices,  
    shall be in writing and may either be delivered personally or may be  
    deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, as either  
    certified or regular mail, addressed as specified in Part A hereof or  
    to such other respective addresses as either party may from time to  
    time designate in writing.  All notices shall be deemed received upon  
    personal delivery or deposit in the United States Mail, as aforesaid.  
  
    15.  RELATIONSHIP.  In no event shall the City be construed or held  
    to have become in any way or for any purpose a partner, associate, or  
    joint venturer of the Lessor or any party associated with the Lessor  
    in the conduct of the Lessor's business or otherwise.  This lease  
    does not constitute the Lessor as the agent or legal representative  
    of the City for any purpose whatsoever.  
  
    16.  AMENDMENTS.  The parties hereto expressly reserve the right to  
    renegotiate any and all of the provisions hereof from time to time as  
    may be necessary and to amend this lease accordingly; Provided,  
    however, that no alteration or modification of the terms or  
    conditions hereof shall be valid and binding unless made in writing  
    and signed by the authorized representative of the parties hereto.  
  
    17.  NO WAIVER OF DEFAULT.  The City does not waive full compliance  
    with the terms and conditions of this lease by the payment of rent.  
    No waiver shall be binding unless in writing and signed by the City's  
    authorized representative.   No waiver of default by either party of  
    any of the terms, covenants, and conditions hereof to be performed,  
    kept and observed by the other party shall be construed as, or  
    operated as, a waiver of any subsequent default or of any of the  
    terms, covenants, and conditions herein contained, to be performed,  
    kept and observed by the other party.  
  
    18.  BINDING EFFECT.  This lease shall be binding upon the heirs,  
    successors, assigns, and all other parties legally empowered with  
    signatory rights of any or all of the parties hereto; provided that  
    the City may not assign this Lease or sublet the Premises without  
    Lessor's prior written consent.  The foregoing shall not prohibit the  
    use and occupancy of the Premises by governmental agencies and  
    community groups, as provided in Part A - Purposes, of this Lease.  
  
    19.  INVALIDITY OF PROVISIONS.  Should any term, provision, condition  
    or other portion of this lease be held to be inoperative, invalid or  
    void, the same shall not affect any other term, provision, condition  
    or other portion of this lease; and the remainder of this lease shall  
    be effective as if such term, provision, condition or portion had not  
    been contained herein.  
  
    20.  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.   During the term of this Lease, the City  
    shall not cause or knowingly permit any Hazardous Materials to either  
    (a) be placed, held, or located on the Premises unless in compliance  
    with all applicable laws or (b)  disposed of on, in or under the  
    Premises or (c) otherwise affect the Premises in any manner that  
    violates federal, state or local laws, ordinances, rules, regulations  
    or policies now in effect or hereafter adopted governing the use,  
    storage, treatment, transportation, manufacture, refinement,  
    handling, production or disposal of Hazardous Materials  
    (collectively, the "Environmental Laws").  For purposes of this  
    section, "Hazardous Materials" shall mean any flammable substances,  
    explosives, radioactive materials, hazardous wastes, toxic  
    substances, pollutants, pollution or related materials specified as  
    such in, or regulated under, any of the Environmental Laws.  Lessor  
    shall have neither the ability nor the duty to direct the City's  
    activities with respect to Hazardous Materials or its compliance with  
    Environmental Laws.  At the expiration or earlier termination of this  
    Lease, the City shall cause any Hazardous Materials knowingly  
    permitted or caused by the City, to be placed, held, located or  
    disposed of on, in, under or affecting the Premises in any manner  
    that violates the Environmental Laws to be cleaned up and removed  
    from the Premises at the City's expense in such manner as to comply  
    with the Environmental Laws.  The City shall indemnify, defend and  
    hold Lessor and the present and future owners of the property  
    harmless from and against any and all losses, liabilities, claims and  
    expenses (including reasonable attorney fees through appeal and fees  
    of environmental engineers) arising out of or in any way relating to  
    any default by the City under this section, and the agreements by the  
    City in this section shall survive the expiration or earlier  
    termination of this Lease.  The City  shall immediately advise Lessor  
    in writing of any and all enforcement, cleanup, remedial, removal or  
    other governmental or regulatory actions instituted, completed or  
    threatened pursuant to any Environmental Laws affecting the Premises.  
    Lessor shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City from and  
    against any and all losses, liabilities, claims and expenses  
    (including reasonable attorneys fees and costs through appeal and  
    fees of environmental engineers) arising out of, or in any way  
    related to the actual or alleged use, storage, treatment,  
    transportation, manufacture, refinement, handling, production or  
    disposal of Hazardous Materials by any person or entity other than  
    the City, or any of its employees, agents, subcontractors, invitees  
    or any third party in a contractual relationship with the City,  
    (other than the Lessor), that has occupied or presently or in the  
    future may occupy the Premises or any portion thereof and/or any part  
    of the building in which and/or land on which the Premises are  
    located.  The agreements by the Lessor in this section shall survive  
    the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.  
  
    21.  SUBORDINATION.  This Lease, and all rights of the City  
    hereunder, are and shall be subject and subordinate to any ground  
    leases or master leases   ("Master Leases") covering the land and/or  
    the structure of which the Premises form a part, now or hereafter  
    existing, and to all mortgages, trust deeds and other financing and  
    security instruments ("Mortgages"), which may now or hereafter affect  
    the land and/or the structure of which the Premises form a part, and  
    to all renewals, modifications, replacements and extensions of such  
    Master Leases and Mortgages.  This Section shall be self-operative,  
    and no further instrument of subordination shall be required.  In  
    confirmation of such subordination, the City shall execute,  
    acknowledge and deliver to Lessor any instrument that Lessor may  
    reasonably request to evidence such subordination within ten days  
    after a request therefor.  If the interest of Lessor under this Lease  
    is transferred, whether through possession, foreclosure or delivery  
    of a new lease or deed, then the City shall recognize the party  
    succeeding to Lessor's rights and obligations (the "Successor  
    Lessor") as the Lessor under this Lease and shall promptly execute  
    and deliver any instrument that such Successor Lessor may reasonably  
    request to evidence such attornment.  Upon such attornment, the  
    City's rights hereunder shall continue in full force and effect as a  
    direct Lease between the Successor Lessor and the City upon all of  
    the terms, conditions and covenants as set forth in this Lease so  
    long as the City is not in default.  
  
    22.  BROKER.  The City represents that it has not engaged any broker,  
    agent or finder who would be entitled to any commission or fee in  
    connection with the negotiation and execution of this Lease.  The  
    City agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Lessor against and from  
    any claims for any brokerage commissions and all costs, expenses and  
    liabilities in connection therewith, including attorneys' fees and  
    expenses, arising out of any charge or claim for a commission or fee  
    by any broker, agent or finder on the basis of any agreements made or  
    alleged to have been made by or on behalf of the City.  Lessor  
    represents  that Schnitzer Northwest, LLC is its sole broker engaged  
    in connection with this Lease and Lessor shall be solely responsible  
    for all brokerage commissions due to Schnitzer Northwest, LLC in  
    connection with this Lease.  
  
    23.        INSURANCE.  Lessee shall carry general liability insurance  
    in the amount of at least $1,000,000 during the term of this lease.  
    The Lessee shall provide proof of such coverage and name the Lessor  
    and its agents as additional insured.  
  
    Lessee's Public Liability.  Lessee shall, at its own cost and  
    expense, keep and maintain in full force during the Term and any  
    other period of occupancy of the Premises by Lessee, a policy or  
    policies of commercial liability insurance, written by a reputable  
    insurance company authorized to do business in the State of  
    Washington in form and content reasonably acceptable to Lessor  
    insuring Lessee's activities with respect to the Premises, the  
    Property for loss, damage or liability for personal injury or death  
    of any person or loss or damage to property occurring in, upon or  
    about the Premises in an amount of not less than Two Million Dollars  
    combined single limit or such larger amounts as may hereafter be  
    reasonably requested by Lessor.  The policy shall insure the hazards  
    of the Premises and Lessee's operations therein, shall include  
    independent contractor and contractual liability coverage and shall  
    (a) name Lessor, Lessor's managing agent and the Lessor's mortgagee  
    under a mortgage or beneficiary under a deed of trust either having a  
    lien against the Property (the "Lender") as an additional insured;  
    (b) contain a cross- liability provision and; (c) contain a provision  
    that the insurance provided hereunder shall be primary and non-  
    contributing with any other insurance available to Lessor.  
  
    Lessee's Property and Other Insurance.  Lessee shall, at its own cost  
    and expense, keep and maintain in full force during the Term and any  
    other period of occupancy of the Premises, a policy or policies of  
    standard form property insurance insuring against the perils of fire,  
    extended coverage, vandalism, malicious mischief, special extended  
    coverage  and sprinkler leakage.  This insurance policy shall be upon  
    all property owned by Lessee, for which Lessee is legally liable or  
    that was installed at Lessee's  
  
    expense, and which is located in the Premises, including without  
    limitation, furniture, fittings, installations, fixtures (other than  
    the improvements installed by Lessor), and any other personal  
    property, in the amount of not less than one hundred percent (100%)  
    of the full replacement costs thereof.  
  
    This insurance policy shall also insure direct or indirect loss of  
    Lessee's earning attributable to Lessee's inability to use fully or  
    obtain access to the Premises.  
  
    Waiver of Subrogation.  Any and all risk policy or policies of fire,  
    extended coverage or similar casualty insurance which either party  
    obtains in connection with the Building, the Premises or Lessee's  
    personal property therein shall include a clause or endorsement  
    denying the insurer any rights of subrogation against the other party  
    to the extent rights have been waived by the insured prior to the  
    occurrence of injury or loss. Lessor and Lessee waive any rights of  
    recovery against the other for injury or loss due to hazards covered  
    by insurance containing such a waiver of subrogation clause or  
    endorsement to the extent of the injury or loss covered thereby.  To  
    the extent that Lessee decides to self-insure its obligations under  
    this Lease, Lessee waives any right to recover against Lessor for any  
    losses, but only to the extent that such losses would be covered by  
    insurance required to be obtained under this Lease.  
  
    Notwithstanding the above, for so long as the City of Seattle has not  
    sublet or assigned the Premises in whole or part, Lessee shall be  
    permitted to self-insure; provided that Lessee shall be solely  
    responsible for repair, restoration and/or replacement of any  
    Lessee's Property so damaged to the extent such repair, restoration  
    and/or replacement would be covered by insurance described in this  
    Lease and hereby releases Lessor and its insurance carriers to such  
    extent from any liability in connection therewith.  The right to  
    self-insure hereunder shall not extend to any sublessee and /or  
    assignee of Lessee for which Lessee must secure Lessor's consent  
    pursuant to Section 18 of Part B of this Lease.  
  
    EXHIBIT B  
  
    Tenant Improvements  
  
    Lessor shall provide the following improvements to the Premises:  
  
    Remove all personal property and debris.  
  
    Remove signage from exterior of building and entry doors.  
  
    Ensure that the roll-up doors, HVAC unit(s), and warehouse lighting  
    are all in working order.  
  
    Deliver the Premises in a broom swept condition.  Any changes in the  
    above scope shall be the direct responsibility of the Lessee.  
  
    Improvements itemized in Exhibit B-1.  
  
    Exhibit A  
  
    Floor Plan  
