* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114585**   
**Ordinance Number: 121189**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the execution of a Use, Occupancy, and Maintenance Agreement with the Cascade Neighborhood Council for the provision of recreational opportunities to the public at the Cascade Building Facility.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 16, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: Nicastro)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 26, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 25, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 9, 2003   
**Committee:** Parks, Education and Libraries   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK   
  
**Index Terms:** CASCADE, COMMUNITY-CENTERS, RECREATIONAL-FACILITIES, PERMITS, FEES, DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114585.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114585  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation;  
    authorizing the execution of a Use, Occupancy, and Maintenance  
    Agreement with the Cascade Neighborhood Council for the provision of  
    recreational opportunities to the public at the Cascade  Building  
    Facility.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized  
    to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a Use,  
    Occupancy, and Maintenance Agreement with the Cascade Neighborhood  
    Council in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, or as  
    may be modified by the Mayor or said Superintendent as they deem to be  
    in the best interests of the City.  
  
    Section 2.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Exhibit A:  Use, Occupancy, and Maintenance Agreement between the City  
    of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation and Cascade Neighborhood  
    Council.  
  
    Michele Finnegan  
  
    CASCord  
  
    April 30, 2003  
  
    version #3  
  
    - 1 -  
  
    Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
    2003 - 2004 Fees and Charges  
  
    Excerpt:  COMMUNITY MEETING ROOMS AND GYMNASIUMS  
  
    "Classification" determinations  
  
    The Department charges rental fees (according to the classifications  
    of usage) for the use of social/meeting rooms and/or kitchens and/or  
    gymnasiums  
  
    Meeting room and gymnasium space is available only during times  
    Department and Advisory Council programs are not scheduled.  Uses are  
    determined by classification A, B, or C as defined below:  
  
    Class A Use:    Non-Commercial Use, for the general public, scheduled  
    during operating hours.  No admission fee, vendor fee and/or donation  
    is requested or received.  
  
    Class A use is reserved for advertised, non-commercial, public  
    events/meetings that are for the general public and are scheduled  
    during hours of operation.  (If scheduled outside normal community  
    center operating hours, see Class B use.)  
  
    Class B Use:     Events/meetings, open to the public, where an  
    admission fee, vendor fee and/or donation is requested or received; or  
    any commercial use which is open to the public.  
  
    Class B use is reserved for events/meetings that are held for the  
    general public.  The rental involves fundraising, admission fee,  
    vendor fee, donation requested or received, or a commercial purpose  
    for the public.  
  
    Non-profit agencies holding an event serving youth, seniors, the  
    disabled or low-income populations.  
  
    A non-profit agency sponsored event/meeting for youth, seniors, and  
    the disabled or low-income populations in the City of Seattle, which  
    may be open or closed to the general public with an admission fee.  
  
    Any Class A use scheduled outside of regular operating hours.  
  
    Class C Use:    Closed to the general public.  
  
    Class C use is reserved for events/meetings where the general public  
    is not invited.  Admission fees may be collected and donations may be  
    received.  Examples are private children's birthday parties, seminars,  
    workshops, etc.  
  
    NOTE:  An event will be considered advertised if it has been announced  
    in the local paper, through mass mailing, radio announcements, posters  
    throughout the community, posted in or distributed through the  
    community center.  
  
    Hourly Room and Gymnasium Rental Fees  
  
    NOTE:  A non-refundable $10.00 booking fee per site is required for  
    ALL rentals in addition to the hourly rates.  An additional charge is  
    required for staff and the use of certain types of equipment, subject  
    to availability at the facility.  
  
    Rooms  
  
    Class A    Class B   Class C           Staff costs are additional  
  
         *       $20.00     $25.00   Small Rooms (1-400 square feet), per hr  
  
         *       $30.00     $35.00   Medium Rooms (401-1,500 square feet), per  
                                     hr  
  
         *       $35.00     $45.00   Large Rooms (1,500+ square feet), per hr  
  
      Booking    $10.00     $15.00   Small KitchenA (minimum of 2 hours), per  
     fee only                        hr  
  
         *       $30.00     $35.00   Large KitchenA (minimum of 2 hours), per  
                                     hr  
  
        N/A      $60.00     $60.00   Additional fee for events with ALCOHOL*  
  
        N/A      $250.00   $250.00   Refundable rental and cleaning deposit (no  
                                     alcohol), for rentals outside of normal  
                                     operating hours  
  
        N/A      $500.00   $500.00   Refundable damage deposit for events with  
                                     ALCOHOL*  
  
    N/A  
  
    $250.00  
  
    $250.00  
  
    Refundable rental and cleaning deposit (no alcohol), for rentals  
    outside of normal operating hours  
  
    N/A  
  
    $500.00  
  
    $500.00  
  
    Refundable damage deposit for events with ALCOHOL*  
  
    * Class A usage is charged a booking fee + $5.00 per hour for all  
    hours over 2 per day.  
  
    A Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in  
    conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on a park  
    site.  
  
    * Alcohol must remain in facility.  Alcohol is not permitted in  
    facilities during operating hours.  
  
    Class C use of rooms for weddings, receptions, and other events  
  
    NOTE:  This fee includes up to 7 hours use of multi-purpose room and  
    kitchenA, which allows time for renter to do event set up, kitchen  
    prep, the event and clean up.  Included in the rental fee are 10  
    banquet tables and 50 chairs.  For time over 7 hours, the Class C  
    hourly rate is added.  
  
    2003      2004                 Staff costs are additional.  
  
    $400.00   $450.00   Weddings, receptions, and other events, up to 7  
                        hoursC  
  
    $250.00   $250.00   Refundable rental and cleaning deposit (when no  
                        alcohol)  
  
     $60.00    $60.00   Additional fee for events with ALCOHOL*  
  
    $500.00   $500.00   Refundable damage deposit for events with ALCOHOL*  
  
    $500.00  
  
    Refundable damage deposit for events with ALCOHOL*  
  
    A Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in  
    conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on a park  
    site.  
  
    Department Policy & Procedure                  City of Seattle  
  
    Subject:  
  
    Number  060-P 2.7.1  
  
        Key Control  
  
    Effective  July 1, 1999  
  
    Supersedes  September 20, 1993  
  
    Approved:  
  
    Department:  Parks and Recreation  
  
    Page    1    of  13  
  
    1.0  PURPOSE  
  
    1.0 To provide for the security of Department employees, facilities and equipment by managing the Key and Lock Control System.  
  
    2.0  ORGANIZATIONS AFFECTED  
  
      2.1  Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
      2.2  Seattle School District  
  
    3.0  REFERENCES  
  
      None  
  
    4.0  POLICY  
  
      4.1  The Security Program Specialist, in coordination with the FMDD Customer Support Manager, Customer Support Administrative Staff and Carpenter Shop personnel shall manage the key and lock control system.  Facility staff shall be managed by  
    facility  
    managers and the Security Program Specialist shall manage the policy to protect the integrity of the Park Department Key and Lock Control System.  
  
      4.2  Keys to Department-owned or operated facilities are issued to Department employees as needed in their jobs.  
  
      4.3  First line supervisors are responsible for all keys issued to their employees.  
  
      4.4  Key holders are responsible for the keys issued to them and are forbidden to loan or give their Department-issued keys to anyone else.  
  
      4.5  Outside duplication of Department keys is not allowed.  
  
      4.6  Non-employees are issued operational key(s) only with the express permission of the appropriate program facility manager, and their Section Manager.  The Security Program Specialist retains the right to review each request for appropriateness.  
  
        4.6.1  Non-employees will be required to make a cash deposit before being issued keys, except as in paragraph 7.3.4  Printed on recycled paper  
  
    4.6.2 Non-employees will normally not be reissued keys after having lost keys.  
  
        4.6.3  Associated Recreation Council (ARC), Woodland Park Zoological Society and Aquarium Society employees will be treated the same as Department employees when issuing keys and for other provisions of this policy and procedure.  
  
      4.7  A responsible individual will sign for each key issued.  A supervisor (or designee) may sign as the recipient for line staff.  Certain keys, such as for toilet paper holders, towel dispensers, etc. will not be part of Key Control.  
  
      4.8  Because of the value of the stock of certain non-Department tenants of Department facilities, such tenants will use their own lock cores and issue their own keys (e.g., Seattle Art Museum, Museum of History and Industry, Golf Pro Shops) except  
    for roadway gates and bollards which require Police, Fire, and Parks Department access.  Concessionaires will supply locks and keys in accordance with the conditions of their contracts with the Department.  
  
      4.9  Supervisors may not permanently retain, reissue or otherwise change assignment of employees' keys except through the Key Control  
  
    Policy.  Any transfer of keys from one individual to another will not be done within the organization unit but will  
    be accomplished by turning the keys in to the Key Control Office.  
  
      4.10  Locks will not be changed or recored without the written approval of the Security Program Specialist.  
  
        4.10.1  Program facility managers will submit re-coring requests in writing to the Security Program Specialist, clearly stating the reason(s) for the request.  
  
        4.10.2  The Security Program Specialist will evaluate the recoring request.  A key audit is required unless waived by Security.  
  
        4.10.3  If the recoring request is approved, a job order will be called into the Consolidated Work Order System (CWOS) for the Carpenter Shop, (who shall be responsible for keying of cores and changing the cores in buildings.  They will decide  
    which  
    cores are appropriate for a given need and then submit a recoring plan to the Security Program Specialist for approval).  
  
        4.10.4  The Carpenter Shop will not change key cores or issue keys without an approved work order except in an emergency with the approval of the Security Program Specialist or Parks Duty Officer, as appropriate.  
  
        4.10.5  Written notification of recoring shall be done by the Security Program Specialist and new keys will be provided by the Key Control Office.  
  
        4.10.6  Zoo management will be able to recore without obtaining prior permission, but Zoo staff will send a record of permanent recoring of facilities to the Security Program Specialist (who will forward it to the CWOS Administrative Specialists  
    for  
    entry into the Key control Data Base).  
  
      4.11  Forced entry (entry without the proper key) may be authorized only in emergencies and in consultation of the Security Program Specialist or Park Duty Officer, as appropriate.  (See paragraph 7.6)  
  
    5.0  DEFINITIONS  
  
      5.1  The Key and Lock Control System is defined as the keys and door cores that secure buildings and equipment.  Vehicle, desk, cash  
  
    register, toilet paper holders, paper towel dispensers, and other minor work-related keys are not within the scope of  
    this system and their issuance, use and disposition are exempt from the provisions of the Key Control Policy.  
  
      5.2  As delegated by the Customer Support Manager, a trained member(s) of the Facilities Maintenance Customer Support/Jobline staff shall be designated Key Control Officer and assigned the duties of issuing keys and keeping key and lock related  
  
    records.  The Key Control Office shall maintain Sonitrol records, issue and delete Sonitrol numbers, and maintain the Parks Duty Officer (PDO)  
  
    schedule and perform other related duties as assigned.  The Customer Support Manager shall assign members of  
    th  
    e Customer Support Services staff to backfill and "cover" the Key Control Officer position as appropriate.  
  
    6.0  RESPONSIBILITY  
  
      6.1  First Line Supervisors - It shall be the responsibility of first line supervisors to identify the key needs of their personnel, to requisition appropriate keys promptly for those personnel, to instruct the employees in proper key safeguard  
    methods during orientation and to ensure the prompt return of keys by individuals leaving the Department.  Each supervisor signing Separation Report Forms must ensure the keys have been turned in to the Key Control Office BEFORE he or she signs and  
    proce  
    sses the form.  
  
        6.1.1  A responsible supervisor may sign as the recipient for the employee (e.g. John Doe, supervisor for Jane Smith).  
  
        6.1.2  Each supervisor shall instruct his/her subordinates in key control procedures during new employee orientation and thereafter annually.  
  
        6.1.3  As a regular part of the annual employee evaluation process, it is recommended that the supervisor perform, a key audit.  This  
  
    consists of writing out a list of keys carried by the employee.  Return this list and any keys no longer needed to  
    the Key Control Office.  Each supervisor may also audit keys of employees as needed, or as requested by the Security Program Specialist.  
  
        6.1.4  Each supervisor shall promptly report all losses of keys by persons in his/her organization.  The supervisors shall make a phone report to the Security Program Specialist within the first three hours of the next working day, and written  
    follow-up reports to the Division Director, with copies to the Security Program Specialist and Key Control Office, within a week.  
  
        6.1.5  Each supervisor is responsible for the key security performance of his/her employees.  
  
        6.1.6  Persons returning keys shall verify that keys have been signed off/on the key control signature card each time keys are returned to the Key Control Office.  An employee is responsible for his or her keys until they are returned and signed  
    off.  
  
        6.1.7  It is the responsibility of the first line supervisor to return keys when they are no longer needed.  If an employee transfers to  
  
    a different work unit, the outgoing supervisor is responsible for collecting and returning the employee's keys.  
    The new supervisor is responsible for obtaining and issuing the appropriate keys to the transferred employee.  
  
          6.1.7.1  Punitive action may be taken if 6.1.7 is not complied with (see 7.5).  
  
      6.2  Security Program Specialist - The Security Program Specialist shall (via appropriate staff):  
  
        6.2.1  Maintain key assignment cards for all individuals holding Department and joint use public school keys, and shall require a  
  
    signature for each key issued.  Upon return of each key, the Key Control Office shall sign and write "returned" on the  
    card.  
  
        6.2.2  Maintain a cross file for each key designation, listing persons having corresponding keys.  
  
        6.2.3  Maintain an up-to-date file of lost keys and of the names of individuals and the organizations which they represent who have been careless with keys or have lost keys.  
  
        6.2.4  Maintain a list of door core assignments.  
  
        6.2.5  Issue only authorized keys that are the lowest security key required to do the job.  
  
        6.2.6  Maintain a date "tickler" file indicating when temporary key issues are due to be returned.  
  
        6.2.7  Ask for key audits on occasion, with or without specific cause.  
  
        6.2.8  Issue keys only with appropriate authorization, except in emergencies and security related matters.  
  
      6.3  Human Resources Unit - The Human Resources Unit shall advise the Key Control Office when personnel are being separated from employment.  
  
      6.4  The Security Program Specialist is responsible for insuring the integrity of the key and lock policy.  He or she also has the authority to coordinate with all Parks Department employees and vendors as necessary to implement this policy.  The  
    Security Program Specialist shall be the administrator of the key and lock policy, with the understanding that normal operational functions shall be under the direct supervision of the appropriate manager or crew lead.  
  
      6.5  Initiators of a Key Request for non-Department persons - A "sponsor" recommending that a key be issued to a non-Parks person shall be responsible for seeing that the issued key is returned promptly at the date the lease is up, the contract is  
    completed, the sport season is over, or the special event is finished and clean-up is completed.  Such a sponsor will normally be the person with the Department function most closely related to the reason for the key issue (e.g., Project Manager  
    sponsors  
    contractor; Grants and Contracts Manager sponsors concessionaire; Community Center Coordinator sponsors Day Care Center programs).  
  
    7.0  PROCEDURE  
  
      7.1  Issuing Keys to Employees  
  
        7.1.1  Initiation of request - Employee's supervisor initiates a request for the employee on a Key Requisition Form.  
  
        7.1.2  Approval routing - The employee sends the request through his or her supervisor and Section Manager, for approval.  
  
        7.1.3  The Section Manager sends the request to the Key Control Office for processing.  Key control Officer will only forward 'master' key requests and any problematic requests to the Security Program Specialist for review and approval.  
  
          7.1.3.1  The requestor shall be notified when the keys are ready to be picked up.  If the key requests are hand-carried, it will be up to the discretion of the Key Control Office when the key can be issued.  The Key Control Office shall make  
    every  
    effort to issue keys in a timely manner.  
  
        7.1.4  The Section Manager can approve keys within his or her area of supervision.  A Director and the Security Program Specialist needs to approve the Key Request only if the employee has lost keys, a discipline issue is involved, a grand master  
    is  
    being requested, a key is being issued to a non-employee, or is complicated by other factors.  
  
        7.1.5  The Section Manager can limit employees access to facilities under his or her direct supervision.  
  
        7.1.6  Key assignment cards- The Key Control Office issues the approved key(s) in exchange for a signature for each key (one key - one signature).  A name card thereby keeps listings of keys held by each person.  There shall be a dual record  
    keeping  
    system, (i.e. key assignment cards and a key control database) until paper key assignment cards are replaced by electronic key assignment database.  Then a written addendum shall explain the changes in the policy.  
  
      7.2  Issuing Keys to Contractors  
  
        7.2.1  General - for minor jobs, it is permissible to issue a specific key to the contractor upon approval of the Project Manager and Supervisor.  The Project Manager will initiate the key requisition and route for approval via the procedure  
    outlined above in 7.1.2.  
  
        7.2.2  Major construction - In case of new construction or major building overhaul, the Project Development Section will specify vendor installation of a "contractor's core" and vendor return to the proper Department core, at the contractor's  
    expense.  
  
      7.3  Issuing Keys to Non-Employees  - Keys are sometimes issued to non-employees when the public benefits significantly from keys being  
  
    issued to particular individuals.  These cases are often associated with children's or other programs operated by  
    a  
    non-profit organization, or by a concession operation on a city-owned facility (Pratt Fine Arts is an example).  In justified cases, keys are issued in the following manner:  
  
        7.3.1  Initiation of request - The program organization with operational responsibility for the service, or for the facility involved, initiates the request on a Key Requisition Form (B-65).  The initiator notes on the form the need or benefits  
    involved and recommends approval.  (See Responsibility section 6.5.)  
  
        7.3.2  See 7.1.3  
  
        7.3.3  A key deposit of $50 is required for all non-Department persons, for each key.  
  
          7.3.3.1  The appropriate Division Director may waive or reduce the fifty dollar deposit per key only in exceptional cases:  
  
            -  the key user is under contract to the Department relative to the service that necessitates the key.  
  
            -  the key user is doing the Department a service in providing the assistance that necessitates the key.  
  
            -  A contractor will normally pay the key deposit.  
  
          7.3.3.2  The Department encourages key deposits in the form of checks to the "Parks and Recreation Department" rather than cash, but in either case the Key Control officers or appropriate management staff, via chain of supervision, shall issue  
    receipts for the key deposits. A due date will be determined at the time of issue.  The deposits are forwarded to the Accounting and Payroll Unit (with names, organizations, addresses, and phone numbers) for placement in a guaranteed deposit fund.  
  
    7.3.4 Keys will not be issued to private citizens to restrict the use of or to secure public property.  The securing of Parks facilities is the exclusive responsibility of Department employees, Police and Fire Department staff, and specifically hired  
    security personnel.  The Department, not being in direct control of the circumstances under which a private citizen may use a key, would set up conditions for misuse and could be negligent and possibly liable.  
  
    7.3.5 Key and deposit returns - Upon return of each key from a non-employee, the Key Control Office will take the following actions:  
  
          7.3.5.1  Sign an appropriate entry(s) on the signature card.  
  
          7.3.5.2 A return receipt will be given, if requested  
  
          7.3.5.3  Notify the Accounting Unit that the key(s) has been returned and that the deposit is to be refunded.  
  
      7.4  Safeguarding Keys and Restrictive Considerations  
  
        7.4.1  Persons having keys are to take conscientious care in the safeguarding of those keys.  Keys will normally be kept on the person or in locked cabinets - not in desks, vehicles, or other unsecured places.  
  
        7.4.2  Keys are not to be loaned between co-workers except in emergencies, and then not for more than 24 hours.  Such loans are only  
  
    to be made with a specific approval of line supervisors, within their line responsibility, and upon notification of  
    the Security Program Specialist.  If keys are loaned between co-workers, a receipt will be issued to the employee giving up his or her keys.  
  
        7.4.3  Keys to the exterior doors of Parks buildings will be provided only to persons working there and who arrive early, leave late, or work weekends.  
  
        7.4.4  Each supervisor will promptly notify the Security Program Specialist in writing of all key procedure violations and lost keys for  
  
    review by management to determine corrective measures needed, such as recoring locks, changing procedures, and  
    charging for costs incurred.  The notification will clearly state the circumstances surrounding the loss of the keys (date, time, approximate location) and whether or not the loss poses a security problem.  
  
        7.4.5  Employees going on leave-of-absence, or "zero" timesheets, or extended sick leave MUST return all keys to the Key Control Office.  (Keys then will be tagged and locked in the key control file for safekeeping.)  
  
        7.4.6  Any employee may return any keys to the (Key Control Office) for safekeeping while on vacation.  Losing keys in activities like skiing or while on vacation will be considered evidence of direct violation of these instructions.  
  
        7.4.7  Day Care Center employees, SPICE Program employees, and other non-Parks personnel may not pass keys to each other, and instruction and enforcement is a responsibility of appropriate Parks employees with assignments related to the non-Parks  
    function (see 7.3).  
  
      7.5  Disciplinary and Corrective Measures  
  
        7.5.1  Violations of the provision of this policy and procedure by Department employees will be handled in accordance with the Policy and Procedure on "Coaching and Corrective Action" (060- P 4.4.3).  
  
          7.5.1.1  The supervisor or (manager) who can recommend appropriate coaching or corrective action will review key procedure violations.  
  
          7.5.1.2  The supervisor or manager will consider the following factors when evaluating a key procedure violation.  
  
              -  The extent of employee carelessness  
  
              -  Where and when a key was lost  
  
              -  The level of security affected  
  
              -  Whether an employee took sufficient care to safeguard the key(s)  
  
              -  Whether the violation is a second offense  
  
              -  The loss of a "grandmaster" or other "master" key (those keys which open more than one facility) will be considered to be a more serious infraction than the loss of other keys.  
  
          7.5.1.3  The supervisor or manager must check with the Security Program Specialist to determine the potential effect on the security of the employee's facilities or equipment from the key policy violation.  
  
          7.5.1.4  The Security Program Specialist will notify the appropriate Division Director of certain key policy violations:  
  
              -  The second loss of keys within one year  
  
              -  Extreme carelessness in safeguarding keys  
  
              -  Apparent uncorrected key policy violations  
  
              -  Duplication of Department keys  
  
          7.5.1.5  The loss of a "grandmaster" or other "master" key, (those keys that open more than one facility) will be considered to be a more serious infraction of the Policy and Procedure and may be treated as such when discipline is given.  The  
    loss  
    of a "master" key may result in suspension, demotion or dismissal depending upon the severity of the loss of security.  Security cores J sand K series shall be included and considered "masters".  
  
        7.5.2  Any non-employee who loses a key(s) will lose his or her key deposit and will also be billed for any necessary or desirable recoring if there is any indication of not having taken conscientious care of the key(s).  
  
      7.6  Forced Entry without a Key  
  
        7.6.1  When time permits, a person may force entry only after telephoning and coordinating with the Security Program Specialist during working hours, or with the Parks Duty Officer during off-hours.  
  
        7.6.2  When time does not permit this coordination, any person cutting a lock or otherwise forcing entry must report by telephone to the Security Program Specialist or Parks Duty Officer immediately thereafter, and follow-up in 24 hours with a  
    written report to the Security Program Specialist via line management.  The report must clearly state the necessity, the approving authority, the persons involved, and the resecuring action taken.  
  
    8.0  APPENDICES  
  
      8.1  Key Requisition Form  
  
      8.2  Key Assignment Card  
  
      8.3  School/Parks Agreement:  Procedure for Issuing School District Facility Keys and Procedure for Issuing Parks Department Facility Keys  
  
    dprv1032.doc  
  
      revised 6/4/03 DRAFT  
  
    EXHIBIT A  
  
    PROCEDURE FOR ISSUING SCHOOL DISTRICT FACILITY KEYS  
  
    TO DEPARTMENT OF PARKS & RECREATION PERSONNEL  
  
    Parks Department use of School District facilities is governed by the conditions and provisions of the Agreement for the Joint Use of  
  
    Facilities between Seattle School District No. 1 and the City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation.  Issuance  
    of keys to Parks personnel for use of School District facilities shall also be governed by the Joint Use Agreement.  
  
    The following procedures will apply to all requests by the Parks Department for keys to School District facilities:  
  
    School District Keys to Parks Department personnel shall be issued in accordance with existing Parks Department key control policies.  
  
      EXHIBIT B  
  
    PROCEDURE FOR ISSUING PARK-DEPARTMENT FACILITY KEYS  
  
    TO SCHOOL DISTRICT PERSONNEL  
  
    School District use of Park Department facilities is governed by the conditions and provisions of the Agreement for Joint Use of Facilities between Seattle School District No. 1 and the City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation.  Issuance of  
    keys to District personnel for use of park facilities shall be limited to the requirements of the Joint Use Agreement.  
  
    The following procedures will apply to all requests by School District for keys to Park Department facilities.  
  
    A.   All Uses of Park Facilities must be by Permit.  
  
      1.  The Principal or Program Manager shall submit an application which identifies:  
  
        a.  The Park Department spaces requested  
  
        b.  The dates and hours of use  
  
        c.  The number of keys needed  
  
      (Use the Principal's Building Use Form and route through Area Administration.  Operations will forward this form to the Park Department.)  
  
      2.  Upon receipt of a permit, the school shall notify Operations and they will issue the required keys.  
  
    B.   General Guidelines for Park Department Keys  
  
      1.  The cost for any rekeying of a Park Department facility to provide controlled access by a School District program shall be borne by the School District.  
  
      2.  The District Operations office will obtain the number of keys needed for each Parks Department facility to which permits are issued.  
  
        a.  Operations shall identify key requirements by facility, by doors to be accessed at each facility, and by numbers of individuals requiring access to each door.  
  
        b.  Those requirements shall be transmitted to the Key Control Office.  
  
      3.  The Key Control Office shall deliver needed keys to the District Locksmith.  Such keys will become the responsibility of the locksmith who will not reproduce any Parks Department keys.  
  
      4.  The Operations Office will process all key requests per A-2 above, and keys will be hand-delivered to the Principal or Program Manager.  
  
      XI  
  
    PROCEDURE FOR ISSUING PARK DEPARTMENT  
  
    FACILITY KEYS TO SCHOOL DISTRICT PERSONNEL  
  
    Page 2  
  
      5.  At the end of each school year, all Park Department keys issued in the District will be picked up by an Operations Section Supervisor and returned to the District Locksmith.  
  
      6.  At the start of the next school year, the process will be repeated.  
  
    C.  Key Security  
  
      1.  Park Department keys shall be considered the same as a master key.  
  
        a.  Evidence of key duplication will result in suspension of key privileges at that facility.  
  
        b.  The cost of rekeying the facility to re-establish security shall be borne by the School District.  
  
      2.  Key Loss or Misplacement  
  
        a.  In the event of key loss or misplacement, the District Security Office is to be notified immediately giving the location of the facility and clearly identify that the key is for a non-District facility.  
  
        b.  Failure to recover the keys or evidence of compromise will result in rekeying as in C-b above.  
  
        c.  Failure to account for all keys issued to a school at the end of the school year will also result in rekeying as in C-b above.  
  
      XII  
  
    dprv1032.doc  
  
    revised 6/4/03  
  
    EXHIBIT C  
  
    KEY AUDIT FORM  
  
    Name of Employees            Keys List and Locations  
  
    Signature:                      Date:  
  
    Facility Name:  
  
    cc:    Key Control Office, Security Office, Carpenter Shop  
  
    dprv1032.doc  
  
    KEY REQUISITION FORM  
  
    FACILITY: ______________________________________________PHONE:_______________________  
  
    Name_______________________________ Title ________________________Dept. or non-Dept ________***  
  
    ___  Permanent Employee                                        ___ Temporary Employee                          ___ New Employee  
  
    ___  Lost/Stolen**                                                   ___ Transferred Employee**  
  
    ___  Other _________________________________________________________________________________________  
  
    Access Location/Description of Use (facility, area, task):  Key Series Required:  
  
    1.  
  
    2.  
  
    3.  
  
    4.  
  
    PRIORITY:    ___ Emergency   ___ Routine    Is Sonitrol clearance required?  ___ yes   ___ no  
  
    Approval Signatures:  
  
    Requesting Supervisor:  
  
           print or type name                                         signature  date  
  
    Section or Program Manager:  
  
          print or type name                                         signature  date  
  
    Division Director*  
  
            print or type name                                         signature  date  
  
    Security Supervisor *  
  
              signature                                                              date  
  
    On completion forward to the Customer Support Unit, Mailslot 25  
  
    Key Processing:  
  
    Administrative Specialist/Customer Support Services Staff  
  
                  signature                            date  
  
          Only required for issue of all master keys, replacement of lost keys, and issue to non-employees.  
  
      **  A key audit is required if keys were lost, stolen or employee has transferred.  If requested key is a replacement for assigned facility key, attach memo written by KEY HOLDER explaining loss.  
  
    ***  $50 deposit required for each key issued, unless reduced or waived by the appropriate Director.  
  
    dprv1032.doc  B-65 (6/99)  
  
    ??  
  
    060-P 2.7.1  
  
    Page 2  
  
                            060-P 2.7.1  
  
                            Page 11  
  
    060-P  
  
    Page 2  
  
    060-P  
  
    Page 3  
