* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114503**   
**Ordinance Number: 121115**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE related to regulation of development in floodplains; amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 25.06, Floodplain Development.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 7, 2003   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: McIver, Pageler, Wills)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 17, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 10, 2003   
**Committee:** Land Use   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO   
  
**Index Terms:** PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES, DEVELOPMENT-ACTIVITIES, FLOOD-CONTROL, FLOODS, PERMITS, CONSTRUCTION  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 114395, 118396  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE related to regulation of development in floodplains;  
    amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 25.06, Floodplain Development.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section   Section 25.06.030, SMC which was adopted by Ordinance  
    114395, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.06.030  Definitions.  
  
    Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this  
    chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have  
    in common usage. For purposes of this chapter, the following words or  
    phrases shall be defined as described below:  
  
    A.  "Area of shallow flooding" means a designated AO or AH Zone on the  
    Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one  
    (1) to three (3) feet; a clearly defined channel does not exist; the  
    path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; and, velocity  
    flow may be evident. AO is characterized as sheet flow and AH  
    indicates ponding.  
  
    B.  "Area of special flood hazard" means the land subject to a one  
    percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.  
    Designation on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for areas of  
    special flood hazard always includes the letters A or V.  
  
    C.  "Base flood level" and "base flood elevation" both mean the level  
    or elevation above mean sea level, as calculated by reference to the  
    National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD), of floodwaters in a  
    particular area during flood having a one percent (1%) chance of  
    occurring in any given year.  
  
    D.  "Critical facility" means a facility for which even a slight  
    chance of flooding might be too great. Critical facilities include,  
    but are not limited to schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire  
    and emergency response installations, nonresidential installations  
    which produce, use or store hazardous materials or hazardous waste.  
  
    E.  "Development" means any man-made change to improved or unimproved  
    real estate, including but not limited to buildings or other  
    structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or  
    drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.  
  
    F.  "Director" means the Director of the Department of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use. As used in this chapter, the term includes  
    authorized representatives of the Director of the Department of   
    Design, Construction and Land Use.  
  
    G.  "Flood" or "flooding" means a general and temporary condition of  
    partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:  
  
    1.  The overflow of inland or tidal waters and/or  
  
    2.  The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters  
    from any source.  
  
    H.  "Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)" means the official   
    preliminary map dated September 23, 1988 May 16,  
    1995, on which the Federal Insurance Administration has delineated  
    both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones  
    applicable to The City of Seattle.  
  
    I.  "Flood Insurance Study" means the official preliminary  
    report, entitled "The Flood Insurance Study for King County,  
    Washington and Incorporated Areas," dated September 23, 1988  
    May 16, 1995, provided by the Federal Insurance Administration,  
    that includes flood profiles, the Flood Boundary -- Floodway Map, and  
    the water surface elevation of the base flood.  
  
    J.  "Floodway" means the channel of a river or other watercourse and  
    the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge  
    the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface  
    elevation more than one foot (1').  
  
    K.  "Lowest floor" means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area  
    (including basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure,  
    usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in  
    an area other than a basement area, is not considered a building's  
    lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to  
    render the structure in violation of applicable nonelevation design  
    requirements of subsection A2 of Section 25.06.110.  
  
    L.  "Manufactured home" means a structure, transportable in one (1) or  
    more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed  
    for use with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the  
    required utilities. The term "manufactured home" also includes travel  
    trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than  
    one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.  
  
    M.  "Manufactured home park" or "manufactured home subdivision" means  
    a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more  
    manufactured home lots for rent or sale.  
  
    N.  "New construction" means structures for which the "start of  
    construction" commenced on or after the effective date of the  
    ordinance codified in this chapter.1  
  
    O.  Recreational vehicle means a vehicle that is (a) built on a  
    single chassis; (b) 400 square feet or less in area when measured at  
    the largest horizontal projection; (c) designed to be self-propelled  
    or permanently towable by a light-duty truck; and (d) designed  
    primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living  
    quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.  
  
    P.  "Start of construction" means and includes substantial  
    improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,  
    provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,  
    placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180)  
    days of the permit date. The "actual start" means either the first  
    placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as  
    the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the  
    construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation,  
    or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. "Permanent  
    construction" does not include site preparation, such as a clearing,  
    grading or filling; nor does it include the installation of streets  
    and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement,  
    footings, piers, or foundation or the erection of temporary forms; nor  
    does it include the installation on the property of accessory  
    buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or  
    not part of the main structure.  
  
    P Q.  "Structure" means anything that is built or  
    constructed, an edifice or building of any kind, or any piece of work  
    artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some  
    definite manner.  
  
    Q R.  1.  "Substantial improvement" means any repair,  
    reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals  
    or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure  
    either:  
  
    a.  Before the improvement or repair is started; or  
  
    b.  If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before  
    the damage occurred.  
  
    2.  For the purpose of this definition, a "substantial improvement"  
    commences when the first alteration on any wall, ceiling, floor or  
    other structural part of the building is made, whether or not that  
    alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term  
    does not, however, include either:  
  
    a.  Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing  
    state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which  
    are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or  
  
    b.  Any alteration of a structure which is listed on the National  
    Register of Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places,  
    which is designated as a landmark pursuant to SMC Chapter 25.12 or  
    which is included in a landmark or historic district.  
  
    Section   Section 25.06.050, SMC which was last amended by  
    Ordinance118396, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.06.050  Identification of areas of special flood hazard.  
  
    Areas of special flood hazard in The City of Seattle are identified by  
    the Federal Insurance Administration in a scientific and engineering  
    preliminary report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study for  
    King County, Washington and Incorporated Areas," dated September  
    23, 1988 May 16, 1995, with accompanying Flood Insurance  
    Rate Maps. The study and maps are filed in C.F. 296948 and are hereby  
    adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The  
    study and maps shall be maintained on file at the Department of   
    Design, Construction and Land Use and the Seattle Public Utilities  
    and may be maintained on file at the Seattle Park Department, the  
    Seattle-King County Department of Public Health, and other City  
    offices.  
  
    Section   Subsection 25.06.090.I, SMC which was adopted by Ordinance  
    114395, is hereby repealed.  
  
    Section   Section 25.06.110, SMC which was last amended by Ordinance  
    118396, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.06.110  Standards involving base flood elevations.  
  
    In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data  
    has been provided under Section 25.06.050 or subsection C of Section  
    25.06.090, the following are required:  
  
    A.  Residential Construction.  
  
    1.  New construction and substantial improvement of any residential  
    structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to  
    two feet (2') or more above base flood elevation, or as otherwise  
    approved by the Director of the Department of Construction and Land  
    Use in consultation with the Director of Seattle Public Utilities.  
  
    2.  Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to  
    flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically  
    equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for  
    the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this  
    requirement must either be certified by a registered professional  
    civil engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the following  
    minimum criteria:  
  
    a.  A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less  
    than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area  
    subject to flooding shall be provided;  
  
    b.  The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')  
    above grade;  
  
    c.  Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other coverings  
    or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of  
    floodwaters.  
  
    B.  Nonresidential Construction. New construction and substantial  
    improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential  
    structure shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,  
    elevated to two feet (2') or more above the level of the base flood  
    elevation, or as otherwise approved by the Director of the  
    Department of Construction and Land Use in consultation with the  
    Director of Seattle Public Utilities; or, together with attendant  
    utility and sanitary facilities, shall:  
  
    1.  Be floodproofed so that below two feet (2') above the base flood  
    level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable  
    to the passage of water;  
  
    2.  Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and  
    hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;  
  
    3.  Be certified by a registered professional civil engineer that the  
    design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted  
    standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based  
    on their development and/or review of the structural design,  
    specifications and plans. Such certifications shall be provided as set  
    forth in subsection C of Section 25.06.070.  
  
    Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed, must  
    meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described  
    in subsection A2 above. Applicants floodproofing nonresidential  
    buildings shall be notified that flood insurance premiums will be  
    based on rates that are one foot (1') below the floodproofed level  
    (e.g., a building floodproofed to one foot (1') above the base flood  
    level will be rated as at the base flood level).  
  
    C.  Critical Facilities. Construction of new critical facilities shall  
    be located outside the limits of the areas of special flood hazard  
    where possible. Construction of new critical facilities shall be  
    permissible within areas of special flood hazard if no feasible  
    alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within  
    areas of special flood hazard shall have the lowest floor elevated to  
    three feet (3') above the level of the base flood elevation at the  
    site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that  
    toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into  
    floodwaters. Access routes to all critical facilities shall be  
    elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation to the  
    extent possible.  
  
    D.  Manufactured Homes. All manufactured homes to be placed or  
    substantially improved within Zones A1--30, AH, and AE on the  
    FIRM shall be elevated on a permanent foundation so that the lowest  
    floor of the manufactured home is two feet (2') or more above the base  
    flood elevation, or as otherwise approved by the Director of the  
    Department of Construction and Land Use in consultation with the  
    Director of Seattle Public Utilities; and shall be securely  
    anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in accordance  
    with the provisions of Section 25.06.100 A. This subsection  
    applies to manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved  
    in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision.  
    This subsection does not apply to manufactured homes to be placed or  
    substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park or  
    subdivision except where the repair, reconstruction or improvement of  
    the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%)  
    of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before repair,  
    reconstruction or improvement has commenced.  
  
    E.  Recreational Vehicles.  Recreational vehicles placed on sites  
    within areas of special flood hazard shall either (1) be on the site  
    for fewer than 180 consecutive days; (2) be fully licensed and ready  
    for highway use, on their wheels or jacking system, attached to the  
    site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and  
    be without permanently attached additions; or (3) meet the  
    requirements for manufactured homes specified in Subsection  
    25.06.110.D above.  
  
    Section   Section 25.06.120, SMC which was adopted by Ordinance  
    114395, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.06.120  Standards for floodways.  
  
    Areas designated as floodways are areas of special flood hazard  
    established in Section 25.06.050. The following provisions apply to  
    development in designated floodways:  
  
    A.  Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial  
    improvements, and other development, are prohibited unless  
    certification by a registered professional civil engineer or  
    architect is provided demonstrating that through  
    hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with  
    standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment   
    shall will not result in any increase in flood levels  
    during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.  
  
    B.  Construction or reconstruction of residential structures is  
    prohibited within designated floodways, except for (1) repairs,  
    reconstruction, or improvements to a structure which do not increase  
    the ground-floor area; and (2) repairs, reconstruction or improvements  
    to a structure, the cost of which does not exceed fifty percent (50%)  
    of the market value of the structure either (a) before the repair,  
    reconstruction or repair is started, or (b) if the structure has been  
    damaged, and is being restored, before the damage occurred. Work done  
    on structures to comply with existing health, sanitary or safety  
    codes, or to structures identified as historic or landmark structures  
    shall not be included in may be excluded from the  
    fifty percent (50%) requirement.  
  
    C.  If the certification of subsection A of this section above is  
    obtained, all new construction and substantial improvements shall  
    comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this  
    chapter.  
  
      Section   The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be  
    separate and severable.  The invalidity of any particular provision  
    shall not affect the validity of any other provision.  
  
    Section   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30)  
    days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and  
    returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it  
    shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Maureen Traxler/MT  
  
    2003 Floodplain Ordinance  
  
    January 2, 2003  
  
    version #1  
  
    - 1 -  
