* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114502**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 23.47.024 to alter existing open space requirements for residential uses in commercial zones.  
  
**Status:** Retired 04/05/04   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Godden, Steinbrueck)   
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 10, 2003   
**Committee:** Land Use   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO   
  
**Index Terms:** OPEN-SPACE-LAND, COMMERCIAL-AREAS, LAND-USE-CODE, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, PERMITS  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 118794  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114502.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114502  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Seattle  
    Municipal Code Section 23.47.024 to alter existing open space  
    requirements for residential uses in commercial zones.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Section 23.47.024 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    Section was last amended by Ordinance 118794, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.47.024 Open space standards.  
  
    Usable open space is intended for use by the residents of the  
    development or structure, and shall be required for all residential  
    uses in mixed use development and single-purpose residential  
    structures according to the following:  
  
      A. Open Space Quantity. Usable open space shall be required for  
    all residential uses in an amount equal to twenty (20) percent of the  
    structure's gross floor area in residential use. Calculation of a  
    structure's gross floor area, for the purposes of this subsection,  
    shall exclude area used for mechanical equipment, accessory parking  
    and unenclosed decks, balconies or porches.  A minimum of  
    twenty-five (25) percent of the lot area shall be provided as usable  
    open space, except that in no case shall the open space requirement be  
    greater than three hundred (300) square feet per unit.  
  
      B. Open Space Development Standards.  
  
        1. When permitted, required Required usable open  
    space may be provided at ground level or may be provided above the  
    ground in the form of balconies, decks, solaria, greenhouses, or roof  
    gardens or decks.  
  
        2. Balconies and decks provided above the ground as open space  
    shall have a minimum area of sixty (60) square feet and no horizontal  
    dimension shall be less than six (6) feet.  
  
        3. Usable open space at ground level, and roof gardens, solaria,  
    and  
  
    greenhouses provided above ground as open space shall have a minimum  
    area of two hundred fifty (250) square feet. No horizontal dimension  
    shall be less than ten (10) feet.  
  
       4. Required usable open space is permitted at the front, sides, or  
    rear of the  
  
    structure.  
  
       5. Parking areas, driveways, and pedestrian access to the  
    nonresidential or  
  
    residential entrances, except for pedestrian access meeting the  
    Washington State Building Code, Chapter 11 -- Accessibility, shall not  
    be counted as open space.  
  
       6. Required open space shall be landscaped according to standards  
  
    promulgated by the Director.  
  
       7. Rooftop space within the following parameters shall not count  
    toward  
  
    meeting open space requirements: the area eight (8) feet from and in  
    front of a directional antenna and at least two (2) feet from the back  
    of a directional antenna, or, for an omnidirectional  
  
    antenna, eight (8) feet away from the antenna in all directions. The  
    Seattle-King County Public Health Department may require a greater  
    distance for paging facilities after review of the Non-Ionizing  
    Electromagnetic Radiation (NIER) report.  
  
    Section 2.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be  
    separate and severable.  The invalidity of any particular provision  
    shall not affect the validity of any other provision.  
  
    Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    J. Roque Deherrera/JRD  
  
    comm open space ord final.doc  
  
    December 23, 2002  
  
    version #1  
  
    - 1 -  
