* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114571**   
**Ordinance Number: 121178**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle's Animal Control Code; creating a civil infraction for possession of a potentially dangerous animal; amending the definition of "dangerous animal" to incorporate reference to the new civil infraction; defining "unprovoked;" providing for implanting a microchip into and photographing of animals whose owners have been found to have committed the new civil infraction; changing the definition of "Animal Control Officer" to conform to the current organization of the Department of Executive Administration; providing for removal of certain dangerous animals to another jurisdiction; providing for penalties for possessing in the City of Seattle an animal that has been ordered removed; amending Chapter 9.25 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and amending Section 12A.06.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code which defines negligent control of an animal.  
  
**Status:** Passed as Amended   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 9, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 13, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 19, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** ANIMAL-CONTROL, DOMESTIC-ANIMALS, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 305952  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle's Animal Control Code; creating a  
    civil infraction for possession of a potentially dangerous animal;  
    amending the definition of "dangerous animal" to incorporate  
    reference to the new civil infraction; defining "unprovoked;"  
    providing for implanting a microchip into and photographing of  
    animals whose owners have been found to have committed the new civil  
    infraction; changing the definition of "Animal Control Officer" to  
    conform to the current organization of the Department of Executive  
    Administration; providing for removal of certain dangerous animals to  
    another jurisdiction; providing for penalties for possessing in the  
    City of Seattle an animal that has been ordered removed; amending  
    Chapter 9.25 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and amending Section  
    12A.06.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code which defines negligent  
    control of an animal.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1. Section 9.25.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    9.25.020  Definitions -- A -- E.  
  
    As used in this chapter, except where a different meaning is plainly  
    apparent from the context, the following definitions apply:  
  
    A.  "Abandon" means the act of leaving an animal:  
  
    1.  Without food, water, or care for twenty-four (24) hours or more;  
    or  
  
    2.  In a situation where the conditions present an immediate, direct,  
    and serious threat to the life, safety, or health of the animal.  
  
    B.  "Alter" means to permanently render an animal incapable of  
    reproduction.  
  
    C.  "Animal" means any living nonhuman mammal, bird, reptile, or  
    amphibian.  
  
      D.  "Animal Control Officer" means any person who is employed with  
    the Seattle Division of Animal Control section of the  
    Department or appointed by the Director for the purpose of aiding  
    in the enforcement of any ordinance, or relating to the licensing  
    control, quarantine, seizure or impoundment of animals.  
  
    E.  "At large" means a dog or other animal inside The City of  
    Seattle, off the premises of the owner, and not under control by a  
    leash of eight (8) feet in length or shorter.  "At large" does not  
    include an animal on property other than the animal's owner with the  
    permission of a lawful occupant of that property.  
  
    F.  "City" means The City of Seattle.  
  
      G. "Dangerous animal" means any animal that according to the  
    records of the appropriate authority,  
  
      (1)  That, when unprovoked, has inflictsed  
    severe injury on or kills a human being or domestic animal  
     without provocation on public or private property,;  
  
  
      (2)  has killed a domestic animal; without provocation while off  
    the owner's property, or;  
  
      (2)(3)  Whose owner has been previously found to  
    be potentially dangerous, whose owner has received notice of such,  
     have committed a civil violation of 9.25.084G or has been  
    convicted of a crime under 12A.06.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code  
    and whose owner is found to have committed a which animal again  
    aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or  
    domestic animals violation of either 9.25.084G or 12A.06.060 of  
    the Seattle Municipal Code with respect to the behavior of that same  
    animal;  
  
       (3)  That, under circumstances other than as described in  
    subsection G(2) above, has been the subject of one or more findings  
    that its owner has committed a civil violation of 9.25.084G or has  
    been convicted of a crime under 12A.06.060 of the Seattle Municipal  
    Code, whether involving the same or a different owner, whose owner is  
    found to have committed a violation of either 9.25.084G or 12A.06.060  
    of the Seattle Municipal Code; or  
  
      4)  Whose owner has received a written notification alleging  
    behavior that would be in violation of either 9.25.084G or 12A.06.060  
    of the Seattle Municipal Code issued under the laws of any other  
    city, county or state agency within or outside of the State of  
    Washington, which animal again engages in behavior that is in  
    violation of either 9.25.084G or 12A.06.060 of the Seattle Municipal  
    Code.  
  
      The breed of a dog shall not be considered in any determination  
    whether a dog is a "dangerous animal" under this section.  
  
    H.  "Director" means the Director of Executive Administration of The  
    City of Seattle or his/her authorized representative.  
  
    I.  "Department" means the Department of Executive Administration of  
    The City of Seattle.  
  
    J.  "Disposed of in a humane manner" means euthanized by a lethal  
    dose of sodium pentobarbital or its equivalent.  
  
    K.  "Detain" means to place an animal in custody.  
  
    L.  "Domestic Animal" means an animal that is livestock, a companion  
    animal, or both.  
  
    1.  "Livestock" means any species of animal commonly used by  
    inhabitants of Washington State for food, fiber, or draft purposes.  
  
    2.  "Companion animal" means any species of animal commonly kept by  
    inhabitants of Washington State as a pet or for companionship, except  
    that snakes exceeding eight (8) feet in length, venomous reptiles  
    (regardless of whether the venom glands have been removed), and  
    venomous amphibians (regardless of whether the venom glands have been  
    removed) are not domestic animals, even if such animals are commonly  
    kept by inhabitants of Washington State pets or for companionship.  
  
    M.  "Exotic animal" means any species of animal that is both: (1) not  
    a domestic animal, and (2) capable of killing or seriously injuring a  
    human being. Subject to the preceding sentence, the definition of  
    "exotic animal" contained in this section includes  but is not  
    limited to:  
  
    1.  All animals of the order Primates (as primates) except humans;  
  
    2.  All animals of the family Canidae (as dogs, wolves, jackals, or  
    foxes) and their hybrid, except for the domestic dog Canis  
    familiaris;  
  
    3.  All animals of the family Felidae (as lions, tigers, jaguars,  
    leopards, cougars, or cheetahs) and their hybrid, except for the  
    domestic cat Felis catus;  
  
    4. All animals of the family Ursidae (as bears);  
  
    5.  All animals of the family Hyaenidae (as hyenas);  
  
    6.  All animals of the order Crocodylia (as alligators, crocodiles,  
    gavials, or caimans);  
  
    7.  All animals of the family Elephantidae (as elephants);  
  
    8.  All animals of the order Perissodactyla (as horses, rhinoceroses,  
    or tapirs);  
  
    9.  All animals of the order Artiodactyla (as camels, cattle, deer,  
    giraffes, goats, hippopotamuses, llamas, pigs, or sheep);  
  
    "Exotic animal" also includes all venomous reptiles and amphibians,  
    (regardless of whether the venom glands have been removed), and all  
    snakes that are eight (8) feet or more in length. An animal that  
    is normally domesticated, but that is determined to be wild or feral,  
    shall be considered an exotic animal.  
  
    Section 2. Section 9.25.023 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    9.25.023  Definitions -- P -- T.  
  
    As used in this chapter, except where a different meaning is plainly  
    apparent from the context, the following definitions apply:  
  
    A.  "Permit" means human conduct in relation to an owned animal which  
    is intentional, deliberate, careless, inadvertent or negligent.  
  
    B.  "Potbelly pig" means that type of swine commonly known as the  
    Vietnamese, Chinese, or Asian Potbelly Pig (Sus scrofa bittatus).  
  
    C.  "Potentially dangerous animal" means any animal that when  
    unprovoked: (1) inflicts bites on a human or a domestic animal either  
    on public or private property; or (2) chases or approaches a person  
    on public property or on private property (other than that of the  
    animal's owner) in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack,  
    or any animal with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to  
    attack unprovoked, to cause injury, or otherwise to threaten the  
    safety of humans or domestic animals.  
  
    CD.  "Secure animal shelter" means an animal shelter that  
    agrees to accept an animal and that agrees to the following  
    conditions:  
  
    1.  Not to release the animal from the shelter for the rest of the  
    animal's natural life;  
  
    2.  Not to allow the animal to come into contact with the general  
    public for the rest of the animal's natural life;  
  
    3.  Not to allow the former owner to have contact with the animal;  
  
  
    34.  To indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and  
    all future liability including any and all claims, demands, damages,  
    liabilities, causes, suits or action of any kind or nature whatsoever  
    relative to past or future care and custody of the animal and to the  
    animal's future behavior;  
  
    45.  To notify the City if the shelter goes out of  
    business or can no longer keep the animal and to abide by the City's  
    disposition instructions.  
  
    DE.  "Service dog" means a dog that is trained for the  
    purposes of assisting or accommodating a disabled person's sensory,  
    mental, or physical disability.  
  
    EF.  "Severe injury" means any physical injury that  
    results in broken bones or disfiguring lacerations requiring multiple  
    sutures or cosmetic surgery. It also means transmittal of an  
    infectious or contagious disease by an animal.  
  
    FG.  "Trespassing" means any animal which enters upon the  
    property of another person without the authorization of the lawful  
    occupant.  
  
    Section 3.  Section 9.25.024 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    9.25.024  Definitions -- U -- Z.  
  
      (Reserved).  
  
    A.  "Unprovoked" means that an animal is not "provoked."  An animal  
    is "provoked" if the animal was being tormented physically abused or  
    hurt at the time of the incident.  An animal also is "provoked" if a  
    reasonable person would conclude that the animal was defending  
    itself, its owner or an immediate family member of its owner, or  
    another person within its immediate vicinity from an actual assault  
    or was defending real property belonging to its owner or an immediate  
    family member of its owner from a crime being committed on the  
    owner's property at that time.   An animal is not "provoked" if the  
    victim is alleged to have provoked the animal and the victim is less  
    than 6 years old.  
  
    Section 4.  Section 9.25.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended  
    as follows:  
  
      9.25.030  Authority of the Director.  
  
      A.  The Director is authorized to:  
  
      1.  Make rules for the interpretation and implementation of this  
    chapter, pursuant to the Administrative Code;  
  
      2.  Accept the surrender of animals to the City Animal Shelter;  
  
      3.  Permit or deny adoption from the City Animal Shelter of animals  
    that have been surrendered to the City, or which are stray or under  
    detainment and unclaimed after the expiration of a holding period;  
  
      4.  Direct immediate humane disposal of: (a) any exotic animal   
    when alternatives, such as placing the animal in a zoo or outside of  
    the City, have been exhausted, (b) any animal surrendered to the  
    City for humane disposal, (c) any animal determined by the Seattle  
    Municipal Court or any other court of law to be a nuisance, (d) any  
    animal involved in a court proceeding in which the owner pled guilty  
    or was found to be guilty of owning a nuisance or dangerous animal or  
    in which the owner pled guilty or was found to be guilty of negligent  
    control of an animal, (e) any animal unclaimed after the expiration  
    of a holding period, (f) any animal determined by the Director to be  
    dangerous pursuant to SMC Section 9.25.035, (g) any animal found  
    in the City of Seattle after removal pursuant to SMC 9.25.035A(3).  
  
      5.  Detain animals found to be unlicensed, or abandoned, or at  
    large, or in inhumane conditions, or to be a nuisance, or to be  
    exotic or dangerous, or otherwise found to be in a circumstance  
    violative of this chapter or any other provision of law;  
  
      6.  Collect cats, dogs and other animals found dead on the public  
    areas of the City, or from private property on request of the  
    occupant of the property, and to bury, cremate, or arrange for the  
    disposal of such animal;  
  
      7.  Appoint agents for the collection of pig, dog and cat license  
    fees and other fees established by Chapter 9.26 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, including past-due fees and penalties;  
  
      8.  Grant, renew, suspend, revoke, or deny licenses according to  
    the terms of this chapter;  
  
      9.  Administer the City Animal Shelter;  
  
      10.  Administer the City Spay and Neuter Clinic and Program;  
  
      11.  Charge and collect fees for the services authorized by this  
    chapter, as established by Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 9.26, known  
    as the "Animal Fee Ordinance," as now existing or hereafter amended,  
    revised or re-enacted;  
  
      12.  Reduce fees for the adoption or redemption of any animal,  
    when, in the discretion of the Director, such a reduction is in the  
    best interests of the animal;  
  
      13.  Appoint persons experienced in the humane trapping of animals  
    to set and bait a trap or use other devices that do not physically  
    harm an animal trapped, when, in the judgment of the Director, such  
    action will protect the public peace, health, safety and welfare and  
    issue live animal trapping permits as authorized by the Director by  
    rule;  
  
      14.  Implant a microchip for identification purposes into  
    animals leaving the shelter through adoption, or  
    redemption or release to another jurisdiction pursuant to  
    9.25.035; or whose owners have been found to have committed a  
    violation of 9.25.084G or has been convicted of a crime under  
    12A.06.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code a microchip for  
    identification purposes;  
  
      15.  Photograph for identification purposes animals released to  
    another jurisdiction pursuant to 9.25.035 or whose owners have been  
    found to have committed a violation of 9.25.084G or has been  
    convicted of a crime under 12A.06.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
  
      1615.  Direct disposition of exotic animals, including  
    but not limited to transfer to a zoological garden, or  
    herpetarium or other jurisdiction so long as the requirements of  
    9.25.035 E are met;  
  
      1716.  Refund fees for overpayment or services not  
    provided;  
  
       1817.  Detain an animal that is the subject of any  
    violation of law, or whose owner is accused of violating any law  
    relating to that animal, and collect from the owner all costs of  
    detainment, care, feeding, and disposition;  
  
      1918.  Direct disposition of dangerous animals to a  
    secured animal shelter or otherwise as provided for in this  
    chapter.  
  
      B.  The Director shall keep records of the handling and licensure  
    of animals in the City.  
  
      C.  Nothing prohibits the Police Department from enforcing  
    provisions of this chapter.  
  
      D.  The Director is authorized to enforce Seattle Municipal Code  
    Sections  18.12.080 ,  18.12.100  and  18.12.110  as authorized by  
    the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation by rule.  
  
    E.  The Director is authorized to enforce Seattle Municipal Code  
    Chapter 9.12 and Seattle Municipal Code Section 10.72.020, subject to  
    such restriction or qualification as the Director of the Seattle-King  
    County Department of Public Health may establish by rule.  
  
    Section 5.  Section 9.25.035 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    SMC 9.25.035  Declaration that an animal is dangerous -- Disposition  
    -- Right to meeting.  
  
    A.  The Director, upon the petition of any person, or at his or her  
    own discretion, may conduct an investigation, and if the findings of  
    the investigation so indicate, he or she may declare an animal to be  
    dangerous. If a domestic animal is found to be dangerous, the  
    Director shall enter an order so stating and shall direct either: (1)  
    humane disposal of the animal; or (2) that the animal be sent  
    at the owner's expense to a secure animal shelter; or (3) removed  
    from the City and maintained at all times in compliance with RCW  
    Chapter 16.08. The owner is responsible for paying all fees owed  
    to the City for the care of the animal.  
  
    B.  Before declaring an animal to be dangerous or directing the  
    disposition of the animal, the Director shall notify the owner in  
    writing of the reasons why the animal is believed to be dangerous,  
    the proposed disposition of the animal, the authority for the  
    proposed action, and that the Director will make a final  
    determination after the expiration of twenty (20) days following  
    service of the notice, or, if sent by certified mail, within twenty  
    (20) days after the date of delivery as shown on the returned  
    receipt. In addition, the notice shall inform the owner that he or  
    she will be provided an opportunity to meet with the Director, at  
    which meeting the owner may give, orally or in writing, any reasons  
    or information as to why the animal should not be declared to be  
    dangerous, or why the Director should direct that the animal be sent  
    to a secure animal shelter instead of directing humane disposal. The  
    notice shall state the date, time and location of the meeting, which  
    will occur prior to the expiration of twenty (20) days following  
    delivery of the notice. The notice shall be sent by regular and  
    certified mail, return receipt requested, or delivered in person to  
    the owner at the owner's last address known to the Director.  
  
    C.  The Director will consider directing that an animal be sent to a  
    secure animal shelter only upon request of the owner. The owner shall  
    bear the burden to establish that an animal shelter is available that  
    meets the criteria for a secure animal shelter, that the shelter will  
    accept the animal, and that the owner is willing and able to pay all  
    expenses for transporting the animal.  
  
    D.  In the event the Director finds an animal to be dangerous and  
    directs disposition of the animal, the declaration and directive  
    shall be in writing in the form of an order, and shall include a  
    recital of the authority for the action, a brief and concise  
    statement of the facts that supports the disposition, and contain the  
    Director's signature. A copy of the order, including notice of the  
    right to appeal, shall be sent by regular and certified mail, return  
    receipt requested, or delivered in person to the owner.  
  
    E.  Prior to releasing an animal for removal from Seattle pursuant  
    to SMC 9.25.035A(3) the Director shall require (1) proof that all  
    conditions required Chapter 16.08 RCW and all other conditions  
    required by state or local law for maintaining a dangerous animal  
    have been met; (2) proof that the animal control authority in the  
    jurisdiction to which the animal is being moved has been informed of  
    the relocation;  (3) proof that the animal control authority in the  
    jurisidiction to which the animal is being moved has consented to the  
    relocation; (4) agreement by the animal's owner to indemnify and  
    hold the City harmless from any and all future liability including  
    any and all claims, demands, damages, liabilities, causes, suits or  
    action of any kind or nature whatsoever relative to past or future  
    care and custody of the animal and to the animal's future behavior  
    .  
  
    Section 6.  Section 9.25.083 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended  
    as follows:  
  
      9.25.083  Owning dangerous vicious animals prohibited -  
    - Exception.  
  
      A.  It is unlawful to own a dangerous animal (other than a licensed  
    guard or attack dog) with knowledge that the animal is dangerous, or  
    with reckless disregard of the fact that the animal is dangerous.  
  
      B.  It is unlawful to possess within the City of Seattle any  
    animal that has been ordered removed from the City of Seattle  
    pursuant to SMC 9.25.035.  
  
      CB.  An animal whose owner is convicted of or pleads  
    guilty to violating this section shall be humanely destroyed.  
  
    Section 7.  Section 9.25.084 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended  
    as follows:  
  
      9.25.084  Offenses relating to control.  
  
      It is unlawful for the owner to:  
  
      A.  Permit any animal, except cats and pigeons, to be at large or  
    trespass upon the property of another. It is not a violation of this  
    subsection to have a dog off-leash in an area designated pursuant to  
    Section 18.12.080  as an off-leash area provided that the  
    requirements of Section 18.12.080 B are met;  
  
      B.  Permit any cat, dog, potbelly pig or other animal to enter any  
    public fountain or any school ground while school is in session or  
    during after-school activities. It is not a violation of this  
    subsection for an owner to permit an animal to enter on to any school  
    ground when school is not in session and no after-school activities  
    are taking place if the animal is on leash and the owner has in his  
    or her immediate possession a device to remove properly any feces the  
    animal may deposit on school grounds;  
  
      C.  Fail to confine any female cat or dog that is in estrus  
    ("heat") in a secure enclosure so that the female cat or dog cannot  
    come in contact with a male unless the male is admitted by the owner  
    of the female , with the consent of the owners of both the male  
    and female animals;  
  
      D.  Permit any animal:  
  
      1.  To damage public property or the private property of another,  
    or  
  
      2.  To bark, whine, howl, or otherwise vocalize in violation of  
    Chapter 25.08 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Noise Ordinance 106360)  
    or its successor ordinance, or  
  
      3.  To spread or spill garbage;  
  
      E.  Have in his/her possession any animal not owned by him/her  
    without the knowledge of the owner, unless he/she notifies the  
    Director of such possession within twenty-four (24) hours; or to fail  
    to surrender such animal to the Director upon demand;  
  
      F.  Tether an animal in such a manner as to permit the animal to  
    enter any sidewalk, street, alley or place open to the public, or to  
    enter any adjacent lot or premises unless authorized by the occupant  
    of the adjacent premises.  
  
    G.  Permit any animal when unprovoked on public or private  
    property to:  
  
    1.  Bite a human being causing less than severe injury as defined in  
    9.25.023E of the Seattle Municipal Code or bite a domestic animal; or  
  
  
      2.  Chase or approach a human, on property other than that of the  
    animal's owner, in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack,  
    which may include but is not limited to any one or more of the  
    following behaviors: snarling, baring teeth, growling, snapping,  
    pouncing, lunging, attacking, or attempting to bite.  
  
  
      The breed of a dog shall not be considered to be evidence of  
    violation of this section.  
  
      Section 6.  Section 9.25.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code is  
    amended as follows:  
  
      SMC 9.25.090  Detainment and disposal.  
  
      A.  No detained animal shall be released to the owner until all  
    applicable fees are paid and licenses obtained except as otherwise  
    provided in this chapter.  
  
      B.  The Director shall ascertain whether any detained animal is  
    currently licensed, and, if so, shall notify the licensee by letter  
    or by telephone that such animal has been detained and may be  
  
    redeemed upon payment of any applicable fees.  
  
      C.  Anyone claiming a detained animal must prove ownership or  
    provide written authorization from the owner to claim the animal, to  
    the satisfaction of the Director before redeeming the animal.  
  
      D.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, injured or  
    diseased animals, in cases where the owner cannot be located,  
    need not be detained for the holding period, but may be disposed of  
    in a humane manner at any time at the discretion of the Director,   
    following a reasonable attempt to locate the owner of the injured  
    animal.  If the owner is identifiable, the Director must contact the  
    owner and give the owner the option of transferring the animal to a  
    veterinarian for immediate treatment.  
  
      E.  Any animal which is detained by the Director may be held at the  
    City Animal Shelter or other place appropriate for the animal. The  
    Director shall post a notice of detainment at the City Animal  
    Shelter, and shall attempt to determine ownership of an animal. If,  
    after the expiration of a holding period, no owner has claimed the  
    animal, the Director shall authorize adoption or dispose of the  
    animal in a humane manner.  
  
      F.  A kennel fee for every twenty-four (24) hour period or part  
    thereof, commencing at the close of business on the day the animal is  
    detained, shall be charged to the owner or other authorized person  
    claiming the animal for the care and feeding of the animal.  
  
      G.  The Director of Public Health may direct the detention of  
    animals suspected of having rabies. These animals shall be held until  
    their release is approved by the Director of Public Health, and all  
    applicable fees are paid.  
  
      Section 7.  Section 9.25.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code is  
    amended as follows:  
  
      SMC 9.25.100  Penalty clause.  
  
      A.  Conduct made unlawful by Sections  9.25.053, 9.25.054,  
    9.25.083 A, and 9.25.085 of this chapter constitutes a crime  
    subject to the provisions of Sections  12A.02.010  and  12A.02.020  
    of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 102843 as amended) and any  
    person convicted thereof may be punished by a fine of not more than  
    Five Hundred Dollars ($500) or by imprisonment for no more than one  
    hundred eighty (180) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.  
  
      B.  Conduct made unlawful by Sections 9.25.081 B, and  
    9.25.081 I, and 9.25.083 B of this chapter constitutes a  
    gross misdemeanor subject to the provisions of Section 12A.02.010 and  
    12A.02.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 102843 as  
    amended) and any person convicted thereof may be punished by a fine  
    of not more than Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) or by imprisonment  
    for no more than three hundred sixty-five (365) days, or by both such  
    fine and imprisonment.  
  
      C.  Conduct made unlawful by Sections 9.25.081 A, 9.25.081 C,  
    9.25.081 D, 9.25.081 E, 9.25.081 F, 9.25.081 G, 9.25.081 H, 9.25.081  
    J and 9.25.081 K of this chapter constitutes a misdemeanor subject to  
    the provisions of Sections 12A.02.010 and 12A.02.20 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code (Ordinance 102843 as amended) and any person convicted  
    thereof may be punished by a fine of not more than One Thousand  
    Dollars ($1,000) or by imprisonment for no more than ninety (90)  
    days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.  
  
      D.  Conduct made unlawful by any other section of this chapter is a  
    violation and any person found to have committed a violation may be  
    punished by a civil fine or forfeiture of not more than Five Hundred  
    Dollars ($500), but a finding that a violation was committed shall  
    not give rise to any disability or legal disadvantage based on the  
    conviction of a criminal offense. Failure to have obtained, prior  
    to November 1, 2000, a dog, cat, or potbelly pig license as required  
    by Sections 9.25.050, 9.25.051 and 9.25.052 shall not subject the  
    owner to the civil fine or forfeiture established in this subsection  
    if, not later than November 30, 2000: (1) a current license is  
    obtained for the animal, or (2) if the owner has disposed of the  
    animal, the owner notifies the Director of the disposition.  
    Disposition of violations under this chapter shall be governed by the  
    procedures for disposition of traffic infractions under Seattle  
    Municipal Code Chapter 11.31.  
  
      E.  In addition, the court may order the revocation or denial of  
    any guard or attack dog license and any cat or dog license of or to  
    any person convicted of a crime under this chapter for a period not  
    to exceed one (1) year.  
  
      F.  Any person whose guard or attack dog's license is  
    revoked, suspended, or denied shall surrender all of his or her  
    said guard or attack dogs to the Director to be disposed of in  
    a humane manner.  
  
      G.  Any person whose cat or dog's license is revoked,  
    suspended, or denied shall surrender all of his or hersaid  
     cats and dogs to the Director.  
  
      Section 8.  Section 12A.06.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code is  
    amended as follows:  
  
      SMC 12A.06.060  Negligent control of an animal.  
  
      A.  A person is guilty of negligent control of an animal if he or  
    she has possession, custody or control of an animal that, because of  
    the person's negligence, inflicts bodily injury on or kills  
    another person or another animal.  
  
      B.  "Negligence" includes, but is not limited to, failure to comply  
    with or violation of any provision of Section 9.25.083 or Section  
    9.25.084.  
  
      C.  Negligent control of an animal is a gross misdemeanor.  
  
    Section 9.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    4/30/2003  
    (Ver. 19)  
    ta  
