* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114576**   
**Ordinance Number: 121180**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE vacating the alley in Block 58, D.T. Denny's Park Addition on the petition of Fisher Properties Inc. and accepting a Property Use and Development Agreement in relation herein, (Clerk File 301521).  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 9, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 12, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 27, 2003   
**Committee:** Transportation   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN   
  
**Index Terms:** LOWER-QUEEN-ANNE, BELLTOWN, CASCADE, VACATING  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114576.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114576  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE vacating the alley in Block 58, D.T. Denny's Park  
    Addition on the petition of Fisher Properties Inc. and accepting a  
    Property Use and Development Agreement in relation herein, (Clerk File  
    301521).  
  
    WHEREAS, there has been filed with the City Council the petition of  
    Fisher Properties Inc., (Clerk File 301521); and  
  
    WHEREAS, following a public hearing on said petition, held on April 1,  
    1997, the petition was conditionally approved; and  
  
    WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 35.79.030, RCW, and Seattle Municipal  
    Code 15.62, the petitioner has paid $172,500 to the City, which amount  
    is one-half the appraised value of the property approved for vacation,  
    according to an appraisal obtained by the Director of the Seattle  
    Department of Transportation; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  That  
  
    The alley in Block 58, D.T. Denny's Park Addition, as recorded in  
    Volume 2 of Plats, page 46, Records of King County, Washington, being  
    the alley in the block bounded by Denny Way, John Street, 4th Avenue  
    and 5th Avenue  
  
    be and the same are hereby vacated; also RESERVING to the City of  
    Seattle the right to make all necessary slopes for cuts or fills upon  
    the above-described property in the reasonable original grading of any  
    rights-of-way abutting upon said property after said vacation.  
  
    Section 2.  That the Property Use and Development Agreement, King  
    County Recording Number 20030408001889, executed by Fisher Properties,  
    Inc., a copy of which is attached as Attachment A, is hereby accepted.  
  
    Section 3.  That the City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to  
    file a copy of this Ordinance at the King County Records and Elections  
    Division, and to deliver copies of the same to the Director of the  
    Department of Design, Construction and Land Use, and to the King  
    County Assessor's Office.  
  
    Section 4.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachment A: Property Use and Development Agreement Recording Number  
    20030408001889  
  
    MoiraGray/mjg  
  
    Block58AlleyVacOrd  
  
    05/21/03  
  
    version #1  
  
    Reference Number of Related Document:  N/A  
  
    Grantor(s):  FISHER MEDIA SERVICES COMPANY  
  
    Grantee(s):  CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    Abbreviated Legal Description:  Lots 1-12, Block 58, D. T. Denny's  
    Park Addition to North Seattle, Vol. 2 of Plats, p. 46, King County,  
    WA  
  
    Additional Legal Description is on page 2 of Document  
  
    Assessor's Property Tax Parcel or Account No.: 199120-0150-03; 199120-  
    0170-09  
  
    PROPERTY USE AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT  
  
    THIS AGREEMENT is made this date in favor of the CITY OF SEATTLE, a  
    municipal corporation of the State of Washington (herein, the "City")  
    by FISHER MEDIA SERVICES COMPANY, a Washington corporation, owners of  
    the within described property (herein, the "Owner").  
  
    W I T N E S S E T H:  
  
    WHEREAS, Owner is vested in fee simple title and/or has a substantial  
    beneficial interest in the real property situated in King County,  
    Washington, described as follows (herein called the "Property"):  
  
    Lots 1 through 12 inclusive, Block 58, D. T. Denny's Park Addition to  
    North Seattle, according to the Plat thereof, recorded in Volume 2 of  
    Plats, page 46, in King County, Washington;  
  
    Except the easterly 7 feet Lots 1 through 6 condemned for widening  
    Willow Street (5th Avenue) in District Court Cause Number 7541,  
    pursuant to City of Seattle Ordinance Number 1224.  
  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Owner is redeveloping the Property with new office  
    buildings and broadcasting facilities ("Development"); and  
  
    WHEREAS, in connection with the Development, a petition was filed in  
    1996 (C.F. No. 301521) pursuant to RCW Ch. 35.79 and Seattle Municipal  
    Code Ch. 15.62, by the Owner to vacate the alley in Block 58, D. T.  
    Denny's Park Addition to North Seattle; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Seattle City Council granted preliminary approval of the  
    vacation subject to conditions, including the condition that the  
    surface plaza area of the Development ("Plaza Area"), which is  
    depicted on Exhibit A and legally described on Exhibit B  
    hereto, remain undeveloped and accessible to the public; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Owner now seeks final vacation of the alley in Block 58,  
    D. T. Denny's Park Addition to North Seattle;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE, the Owner hereby covenants, bargains and agrees on  
    behalf of itself, its successors and assigns as follows:  
  
    Section 1.  The Plaza Area shall not be developed with buildings  
    (but may be developed with a plaza, fountain, landscaping, benches,  
    lighting, signs and other open space and pedestrian amenities).  The  
    Plaza Area shall be open to the public during daylight hours, subject  
    to the conditions set forth herein.  As used herein, "Plaza Area" does  
    not include below-grade or subsurface areas (which areas are occupied  
    by the subsurface parking garage for the Development).  The Owner  
    reserves the right to use the Plaza Area for any purposes not  
    inconsistent with the grant of rights contained herein.  
  
    Section 2.  The Owner shall have the right from time to time to  
    temporarily close or obstruct the Plaza Area for construction,  
    required maintenance and repair or because of circumstances beyond the  
    Owner's control.  The Owner shall also have the right from time to  
    time to temporarily close or obstruct the Plaza Area (i) to permit its  
    temporary use for private functions related to the Development or the  
    Property (or the owners or users thereof) or (ii) as necessary to  
    maintain the safety and security of the Development, the Property or  
    the persons and property associated therewith.  The Owner may adopt  
    such reasonable rules and regulations regarding the use of and access  
    to the Plaza Area as are necessary to ensure the safety or security of  
    the users of the Plaza Area, the Development or the Property.  
  
    Section 3.  This Agreement shall be recorded in the records of  
    King County and the covenants hereof shall be deemed to attach to and  
    run with the Property and shall be binding upon the Owner, its heirs,  
    successors and assigns.  
  
    Section 4.  This Agreement may be amended or modified by  
    agreement between the Owner and the City; provided such amended  
    agreement shall be approved by the legislative authority of the City  
    by ordinance.  Nothing in the agreement shall be construed as a  
    surrender of the City's governmental powers.  
  
    Section 5.  This Agreement is made for the benefit of the City and  
    the public, and the City may institute and prosecute any proceeding at  
    law or in equity to enforce this Agreement.  
  
    Section 6.  Upon the effective date of the vacation ordinance,  
    Owner shall provide and thereafter maintain in full force and effect,  
    commercial general liability insurance providing for a limit of not  
    less than $1,000,000 per occurrence for all damages arising out of  
    bodily injuries or death.  The insurance policies obtained shall be  
    approved as to form by the City Risk Manager, and shall name the City  
    as an additional insured.  
  
    Section 7.  Owner shall indemnify and hold the City harmless  
    from any and all claims, losses, liabilities, liens, costs, or  
    expenses resulting from or arising out of public use of the Plaza  
    Area.  If any claim covered by this paragraph is asserted against the  
    City, Owner, upon notice thereof from the City, shall defend the same  
    at its sole cost and expense, and shall pay any final judgment  
    rendered upon such claim.  
  
    Section 8.  The Owner reserves the right to use the Plaza Area for  
    any purpose which does not interfere with the public's use of the  
    Plaza Area, including but not limited to the right to use the Plaza  
    Area as described herein and the right to grant easements within the  
    Plaza Area.  
  
    Section 9.  Notwithstanding the covenants contained herein,  
    nothing in this Agreement shall constitute a public dedication of any  
    portion of the Property.  
  
    Section 10.  In the event any covenant or condition hereinabove  
    contained or any portion thereof is invalid or void, such invalidity  
    or voidness shall in no way affect any other covenant, condition or  
    restriction herein contained.  
  
    Dated this _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
    OWNER:  
  
    FISHER MEDIA SERVICES COMPANY  
  
    By:      
  
      Its:   
  
  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
      )  ss.  
  
    COUNTY OF KING  )  
  
    On this day personally appeared before me _________________, to me  
    known to be the ____________________________ of FISHER MEDIA SERVICES  
    COMPANY., a Washington corporation, the company that executed the  
    within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the instrument to be  
    the free and voluntary act and deed of said company for the uses and  
    purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was duly  
    authorized to execute said instrument on behalf of said company.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and seal this _____  
    day of _________________, 2003.  
  
        
  
        
  
    (print or type name)  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at     
  
    My Commission expires:    
  
  
  
    EXHIBIT A  
  
    Drawing of Plaza Area  
  
    EXHIBIT B  
  
    Legal Description of Plaza Area  
  
    A:\BLK58PUDA2.DOC  7  
  
    AFTER RECORDING RETURN DOCUMENT TO:  
  
    John C. McCullough  
  
     McCullough Hill Fikso Kretschmer Smith  
  
    2025 First Avenue, Suite 1130  
  
    Seattle, WA  98121  
  
    A:\BLK58PUDA2.DOC  
  
    - 1 -  
