* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114518**   
**Ordinance Number: 121122**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Joint Training Facility project, authorizing the Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department to acquire for the City of Seattle certain real property located at 9000 Olson Place S, Seattle, Washington, and authorizing the Director to accept the deed on behalf of the City.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 21, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Conlin, Wills)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 25, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 24, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 7, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, FACILITIES, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, FIRE-DEPARTMENT, HIGHLAND-PARK, JOB-TRAINING  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 305919; Ord 120165, 120882  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114518.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114518  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Joint Training Facility project,  
    authorizing the Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department to  
    acquire for the City of Seattle certain real property located at 9000  
    Olson Place S, Seattle, Washington, and authorizing the Director to  
    accept the deed on behalf of the City.  
  
    WHEREAS, the acquisition of the subject property is necessary to and  
    in the public interests of the City of Seattle as part of its Joint  
    Training Facility Project (the "Project"); and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Project's land acquisition was authorized and funded by  
    Ordinance 120165 and additionally funded through 121012; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City acquired other necessary real property adjacent to  
    the subject property pursuant to Ordinance 120882; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The purchase of certain real property located in the 9000  
    block of Olson Place S, and legally described below, is approved in  
    accordance with the terms of the Purchase and Sale Agreement and  
    related documents, attached as Exhibit 1.  
  
    Beginning at the most Easterly corner of Parcel A of City of Seattle  
    Boundary Adjustment No. 2106493 as recorded under Auditor's file No.  
    20020426900001;  
  
    Thence S 56 degrees 16'11" E, along the Southeasterly extension of the  
    Northeasterly line of said Parcel A, for a distance of 200.12 feet to  
    a point of tangency with a curve to the left having a radius of 130.00  
    feet;  
  
    Thence Southerly and Easterly, along said curve, for an arc length  
    distance of 116.98 feet, through a central angle of 51 degrees 33'30" to a  
    point of tangency with a line bearing N 72 degrees 10'19" E;  
  
    Thence N 72 degrees 10'19" E, along said line, for a distance of 74.06 feet to  
    the Westerly margin of Myers Way South;  
  
    Thence S 18 degrees 16'47" E, along said Westerly margin, for a distance of  
    51.08 feet to the South line of Parcel B of said City of Seattle  
    Boundary Adjustment No. 2106493;  
  
    Thence N 88 degrees 38'35" W, along said South line, for a distance of 168.91  
    feet to a point on the East line of said Section 31;  
  
    Thence S 01 degrees 07'31" W, along said East line, for a distance of 209.46  
    feet to the Southeast corner of said Parcel B;  
  
    Thence N 88 degrees 23'36" W, along the South line of said Parcel B, for a  
    distance of 423.25 feet to the Southwest corner of said Parcel B;  
  
    Thence N 33 degrees 43'49" E, along the line common to Parcel B and Parcel A  
    in said Boundary Adjustment No. 2106493, for a distance of 416.21 feet  
    to the Point of Beginning.  
  
    Section 2.  The Director is authorized, on behalf of the City, to sign  
    the Purchase and Sale Agreement attached as Exhibit 1.  
  
    Section 3.  The Director is authorized to accept the deed on behalf of  
    the City of Seattle and to evince this acceptance by signing the  
    certificate of acceptance contained within the deed, and to record the  
    deed, attached as Exhibit 2.  
  
    Section 4.  After acquisition, the property shall be placed under the  
    jurisdiction of the Fleets and Facilities Department.  
  
    Section 5.  The Director is authorized, on behalf of the City, to  
    execute all other documents reasonably necessary to the closing of the  
    purchase of the subject property.  
  
    Section 6.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Section 7.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President__________ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachments:  
  
    Exhibit 1 - Purchase and Sale Agreement  
  
    Exhibit 2 - Statutory Warranty Deed  
  
    Joan Rosenstock/et  
  
    PaintersAcqOrd.doc  
  
    March 20, 2003  
  
    version 2  
  
    EXHIBIT 1  
  
    REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT  
  
    This Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement ("Agreement") is dated  
    for reference purposes January   , 2003, between WESTERN WASHINGTON  
    PAINTERS & ALLIED TRADES APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING  TRUST FUND  
    ("Seller"), an IRS 501c(3) non-profit ERISA and Taft-Hartley Trust  
    Fund, having its administrative office at 201 Queen Anne Avenue North,  
    Seattle, Washington 98109 and its operations located at 6770 East  
    Marginal Way South, Seattle, Washington 98108, and THE CITY OF  
    SEATTLE, a first class city of the State of Washington ("Purchaser"),  
    having an address at The City of Seattle, Fleets and Facilities  
    Department, Real Estate Services Division, 618 Second Avenue, 14th  
    Floor, Seattle, Washington  98104 (individually "Party" and  
    collectively "Parties" to this Agreement).  
  
    RECITALS:  
  
    A.  Seller owns approximately 271,565 square feet (6.23 acres) of real  
    property at 9000 Olson Place Southwest, Seattle, Washington.   That  
    portion to be purchased by the City is legally described in the  
    attached Exhibit A (the "Property").  
  
    B.  The Purchaser desires to acquire approximately 2.43 acres south of  
    the King County Metro Access Easement, having determined that it meets  
    the Purchaser's criteria for the location of a Joint Training Facility  
    for the Seattle Fire Department and Seattle Public Utilities.  
  
    C.  The City is willing to purchase the property subject to the  
    conditions set  
  
    forth in this Agreement.  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the undertakings contained in this  
    Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:  
  
    1.  SALE OF PROPERTY.    Pursuant to the terms of this Agreement,  
    Purchaser shall purchase from Seller the Property described in Exhibit  
    A, subject to:  
  
      a.  All taxes, assessments apportioned between the Parties to the  
    date of Closing, restrictions, easements, licenses, permits,  
    agreements and other matters affecting the Property;  
  
      b.  All applicable zoning rules, restrictions, regulations,  
    resolutions and ordinances and building restrictions and governmental  
    regulations now or hereafter in effect;  
  
      c.  The right of the public in any street or highway forming a  
    boundary of the Property; and  
  
      d.  Any claims of adverse possession, encroachment and/or  
    prescriptive easement, whether or not known to or disclosed by Seller.  
    Seller represents it does not have actual knowledge of any claims of  
    adverse possession, encroachment and/or prescriptive easement  
    affecting the Property.  
  
      e.  At the date of execution of this agreement the parties agree and  
    confirm that the actual legal description of the subject property has  
    not been finalized, however that the full and accurate legal  
    description of the subject property shall be stated and attached  
    hereto as Exhibit A as soon as practicable, but in no event later than  
    the Closing Date, and the Parties expressly authorize the Escrow Agent  
    to attach the same to this Purchase and Sale Agreement.  Purchaser  
    shall undertake all obligations and costs to segregate the subject  
    Property described in Exhibit A prior to closing.  Seller shall extend  
    full cooperation to Purchaser to accomplish the segregation.  
  
    2.  PAYMENT OF PURCHASE PRICE.  The purchase price for the Property is  
    ONE MILLION THREE HUNDRED SIXTY ONE THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED THIRTY-FIVE  
    DOLLARS ($1,361,435), and shall be paid as follows:  
  
      a.  Earnest Money.  Within ten (10) days of delivery of the fully  
    executed Agreement as set forth above, Purchaser shall deliver to  
    Escrow Agent the sum of SIXTY EIGHT THOUSAND SEVENTY ONE AND 75/100  
    DOLLARS ($68,071.75) (the "Earnest Money Deposit"), to be held in an  
    interest bearing account. The Earnest Money Deposit shall be remitted  
    by wire transfer or cashier's check.  
  
      b.  Escrow Agent shall deliver the Earnest Money Deposit to Seller  
    upon Closing, as defined in this Agreement.  
  
      c.  Upon execution of this agreement by the Parties, and upon the  
    performance by Seller of its obligations, this Agreement shall be  
    binding upon the Purchaser and in the event the Purchaser fails to  
    close the transaction contemplated by this Agreement for any reason  
    other than as provided in Paragraphs 12 and13 hereof, the Earnest  
    Money Deposit and any interest thereon shall be forfeited to Seller as  
    Seller's sole remedy for the failure of Purchaser to close this  
    transaction.  If this transaction fails to close due to the breach of  
    this Agreement by Seller, Purchaser may elect to recover the Earnest  
    Money.  
  
      d.     Balance.  At Closing, Purchaser shall deliver to Escrow Agent  
    the sum of ONE MILLION TWO HUNDRED NINETY THREE THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED  
    SIXTY THREE AND 25/100 DOLLARS ($1,293,363.25).  
  
    3.  In addition to the Purchase Price, the City will also deliver to  
    Escrow FORTY ONE THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED NINETY THREE DOLLARS ($41,293)  
    as a lump sum payment to the Seller.  The allocation of these funds is  
    in accordance with the provisions attached hereto as Exhibit B.  
    Seller's Reciprocal Easement Agreement (Exhibit G) with Metro King  
    County attached as Exhibit C- recorded in King County Records (rec.  
    #20020430002896) is incorporated by reference herein.  
  
    4.  VESTING OF TITLE.  
  
      a.  No Restrictions on Development or Resale.  Nothing contained in  
    this Agreement shall be interpreted to restrict Purchaser's right to  
    apply for lot boundary adjustments or other development permits or  
    making any other application deemed reasonably necessary to that end  
    by Purchaser, or to enter into agreements to sell, lease or convey any  
    portion of the Property; provided the same are prospective in nature  
    and are not concluded until the balance of the purchase price is paid  
    by Purchaser, and prior to closing Seller agrees to reasonably  
    cooperate and give its written consent (within 3 business days) to  
    Purchaser's application for such adjustments or permits, provided the  
    same is done without cost or prejudice to Seller.  
  
    5.  TITLE; INVESTIGATION, STUDY AND SURVEY; REPAIR & INDEMNIFICATION  
    OBLIGATION.  
  
      a.  "Marketable Title" to be Provided by Seller.  Seller shall  
    furnish Purchaser with marketable title to the Property.  "Marketable  
    title" shall mean title insurable by Chicago Title Company of  
    Washington, Inc. (the "Title Company") at its standard rates, without  
    exception, except as approved or deemed approved by Purchaser in  
    accordance with this Paragraph.  Upon execution of this Agreement,  
    Purchaser shall order a title insurance commitment for the issuance of  
    standard coverage Owner's Policy of Title Insurance covering the  
    Property (the "Title Commitment").  Seller shall pay the title  
    insurance expense.  
  
      b.  Purchaser's Right to Except Title Conditions.  Upon receipt of  
    the Title Commitment, Purchaser shall deliver a copy to Seller, and  
    Purchaser shall have fourteen (14) days from the date of receipt by  
    Purchaser to notify Seller in writing of Purchaser's objection to any  
    exception in the Title Commitment, other than monetary liens and  
    encumbrances, which shall be paid in full out of Seller's funds or  
    removed by Seller at or before Closing whether or not objected to by  
    Purchaser.  Any exception disclosed in the Title Commitment to which  
    Purchaser does not, within that fourteen (14) day time period, assert  
    a written objection shall be deemed to be a "Permitted Exception."  
    Seller shall thereafter have fourteen (14) days after receipt of  
    Purchaser's written notice of objection to remove any exceptions to  
    which Purchaser has given written objection or to obtain Purchaser's  
    written agreement to waive Purchaser's objection.  If Seller does not  
    within that fourteen (14) day time period, correct or otherwise  
    address title exceptions to which Purchaser has objected Purchaser may  
    notify Seller in writing that it elects to (i) waive such uncured  
    objections and accept title to the Property subject such uncured  
    objections (each of which shall then be deemed a Permitted Exception)  
    without an adjustment to the Purchase Price; or (ii) terminate this  
    Agreement by written notice to Seller and Escrow Agent, in which event  
    this Agreement shall terminate, the Earnest Money Deposit and all  
    interest earned thereon shall be refunded to Purchaser, and neither  
    Party shall have any further rights, duties or obligations under this  
    Agreement.  If Purchaser does not waive uncured objections or  
    terminate this Agreement within ten (10) days of Seller's fourteen  
    (14) day period following initial notice from Purchaser, then  
    Purchaser's right to object to said exceptions shall terminate and all  
    such exceptions shall be deemed to be Permitted Exceptions.  
  
      c.  Consent Granted for Entry onto Property for Inspection, Study  
    and Survey Purposes.  Seller grants to Purchaser consent to enter the  
    Property for the purpose of completing an inspection, environmental,  
    soil and drainage study and to conduct a land survey of the Property  
    at Purchaser's expense.  Consent granted in this paragraph shall  
    automatically terminate upon termination of this Agreement.  
  
      d.  Purchaser's Property Repair and Indemnification Obligation.  If  
    Purchaser does not purchase the Property, Purchaser covenants and  
    agrees to repair any damage to the Property or any condition created  
    on the Property by the activities of Purchaser pursuant to the terms  
    hereof.  Purchaser agrees to indemnify Seller for any costs, loss,  
    damage or expense (including the expense of legal counsel) incurred in  
    any way related to Purchaser's entry on the Property prior to the date  
    of Closing, including but not limited to any mechanic's or  
    materialman's liens placed on the Property related to Purchaser's  
    inspection, study, survey of, or other work on the Property.  This  
    repair and indemnification obligation shall survive the termination of  
    this Agreement.  
  
    6.  POST CLOSING OBLIGATIONS.  Post closing obligations attached  
    hereto as Exhibit B shall survive closing and shall be enforceable by  
    both parties to this Agreement, provided none of these post closing  
    obligations shall give rise to any right of enforcement or benefit to  
    any third party.  
  
    7. ACCESS EASEMENT.  The Seller shall grant to the Purchaser, at  
    Closing, a  
  
     non exclusive easement in perpetuity for ingress and egress and  
    utility purposes in the area identified in Exhibit D as "Roadway  
    Easement" for use by its employees, agents, contractors and visitors  
    to the Joint Training Facility.  
  
    8.  PARKING COVENANT.  It is understood that as a portion of the  
    purchase price, the Allied Trades shall grant to the City a 30-year  
    Parking Covenant for 82 stalls, attached as Exhibit E, for the area  
    directly north of the Access Easement.  The exact location of the  
    Covenanted area will be identified by Closing.  The parking area shall  
    only be used in support of activities held at either the Allied  
    Trades' or City's training facilities.  
  
    9.  REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF PURCHASER.  Purchaser hereby  
    represents, warrants and agrees with Seller as follows:  
  
      a.  Purchaser is a municipal corporation duly organized, validly  
    existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of  
    Washington and has the legal power, right and authority to enter into  
    this Agreement and the instruments and documents that are to be  
    executed by the Purchaser and are referenced herein, and to consummate  
    the transaction contemplated hereby;  
  
      b.  This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by  
    Purchaser; and upon approval of the City Council, shall constitute the  
    legal, valid and binding obligation of Purchaser, and is enforceable  
    against Purchaser in accordance with its terms.  Upon execution of  
    this Agreement by Seller, Purchaser shall submit the same to the  
    Seattle City Council with appropriate legislation for its approval.  
  
      c.  The person or persons signatory to this Agreement and any  
    document executed pursuant hereto on behalf of the Purchaser has full  
    power and authority to bind Purchaser, or, appropriate legislative  
    authority to enter into this transaction will be obtained prior to  
    Closing; and  
  
      d.  Purchaser shall not interfere with the physical condition or  
    potential use of the Property prior to Date of Closing except as set  
    forth herein.  
  
    10.    REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF SELLER.  Seller hereby  
    represents and warrants to and agrees with Purchaser as follows:  
  
      a.  Seller has the full right and authority to enter into this  
    Agreement and to consummate the sale, transfer, and assignments  
    contemplated herein;  
  
      b.  The person or persons signatory to this Agreement and any  
    document executed pursuant hereto on behalf of the Seller has full  
    power and authority to bind Seller;  
  
      c.  Seller is a duly organized and existing IRS 501c(3) non-profit  
    ERISA and Taft-Hartley Trust Fund;  
  
      d.  Seller is not a foreign corporation, foreign partnership,  
    foreign trust or foreign estate or individual, and Purchaser is not  
    required to withhold tax pursuant to 1445 of the Internal Revenue  
    Code;  
  
      e.  This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered  
    by Seller, constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of  
    Seller and is enforceable against Seller in accordance with its terms;  
  
      f.  Except for such matters as are shown in the Title Commitment,  
    Seller is the sole owner of the Property and no other person,  
    corporation or entity has any right, title or interest to the  
    Property;  
  
      g.  Seller has or will have obtained by Closing, all consents,  
    approvals, authorizations, and orders as are required to permit Seller  
    to execute and deliver this Agreement, and to consummate the  
    transaction contemplated hereby;  
  
      h.  With the exception of the Seller's Agreement with King County  
    recorded in King County Records (rec. #20020430002896), Seller has not  
    created, or permitted the creation of, any mortgage, lease, rental  
    agreement, option, easement, right, encumbrance, covenant, condition,  
    restriction, security interest, or lien of any kind or nature,  
    recorded or unrecorded, including but not limited to any architect's,  
    engineer's, landscape architect's, mechanic's or materialman's lien,  
    affecting or against the Property or any part thereof, that is not  
    shown on the Title Commitment, disclosed in writing to Purchaser prior  
    to Closing, and which will not be satisfied, discharged or terminated  
    prior to Closing; and  
  
      i.  Seller has not, as of the date of Closing, received any notice  
    of any pending litigation, bankruptcy or other proceeding affecting  
    the Property, in whole or in part, other than the notice(s) disclosed  
    to Purchaser, in writing, by Seller.  
  
    11.    CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO PERFORMANCE OF AGREEMENT BY PURCHASER.  
    Purchaser shall be obligated to complete this transaction only upon  
    satisfaction or waiver of each of the following conditions:  
  
      a.  Seller is able to convey marketable title to the Property  
    subject only to Permitted Exceptions as required by Paragraph 5 of  
    this Agreement, and the Title Company is able to issue the Purchaser a  
    Policy of title insurance in an amount equal to the Purchase Price  
    with only the Permitted Exceptions as special exceptions thereto;  
  
      b.  The representations and warranties made by Seller in this  
    Agreement are true on and as of the date of Closing with the same  
    effect as though such representations and warranties had been made on  
    and as of the date of Closing;  
  
      c.  Purchaser shall at its own expense, apply for and pursue prior  
    to closing, any lot line adjustments, short plats, subdivision, street  
    vacation, variances, permits or orders it deems necessary to the  
    division of the portion of the land being conveyed in this  
    transaction, and Seller shall, reasonably cooperate and promptly  
    execute documents reasonably necessary for Purchaser to secure lot  
    line adjustments, short plats, subdivision, street vacation,  
    variances, permits or orders.  Purchaser shall indemnify and hold  
    Seller harmless from any costs, expenses or liability resulting from  
    preparation of and recordation of such documents;  
  
      d.  Within fourteen (14) days of the date of this Agreement, Seller  
    shall provide Purchaser with a copy of every report in its possession  
    or control relating to environmental condition(s) on the Property.  
    Purchaser shall indemnify and hold harmless Seller for any  
    dissemination or reliance on such reports. Except as otherwise limited  
    by applicable law, Purchaser shall keep strictly confidential any  
    environmental information relating to the Property.  Purchaser shall  
    disclose such information only to (1) those of its agents or  
    contractors who require the information for business purposes relating  
    to the investigation, analysis or development of the Property,  
    provided that those agents or contractors (a) shall be informed of the  
    confidential nature of the information, and (b) shall agree in advance  
    in writing to be bound by the confidentiality requirements set forth  
    herein; and (2) those persons requesting pursuant to RCW Ch. 42.17  
    information that is not exempt from public disclosure;  
  
      e.  Within fourteen (14) days of the date of this Agreement, Seller  
    shall have provided to Purchaser a complete copy of each of the  
    following to the extent they are in Seller's possession, custody or  
    control:  soils reports; structural reports; survey; and every drawing  
    of the Property showing any easement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,  
    Seller need not provide any copies of Seller's internal memoranda or  
    valuations;  
  
      f.  On or before the Closing Date, Purchaser shall have authorized  
    this purchase by ordinance and such ordinance shall have become  
    effective; and  
  
      g.  Seller shall reasonably cooperate with the Purchaser during the  
    Purchaser's investigation and survey of the Property, and shall  
    provide such information about the Property as the Purchaser shall  
    reasonably require.  
  
      h.  Lot line adjustments shall have been approved.  
  
    12.    SATISFACTION OF CONDITIONS. Purchaser shall use its best  
    efforts to obtain satisfaction of the conditions set forth in  
    Paragraph 11 prior to the deadline described below.  
  
      a.  Termination of Agreement.  If the conditions set forth in  
    Paragraphs 5 and 11 have not been either satisfied or waived by  
    Purchaser by the required date, then either Purchaser or Seller may  
    terminate this Agreement by written notice to the other Party within  
    five (5) days after the period provided for satisfaction of the  
    condition or January 30, 2003 whichever is earlier, whereupon this  
    Agreement shall terminate and neither Party shall have any further  
    liability to the other or rights under this Agreement.  If such  
    termination notice is not given within such five (5) day period, the  
    Parties shall be conclusively deemed to have elected to have waived  
    said conditions precedent.  
  
      b.  Earnest Money. The Earnest Money Deposit held by the Escrow  
    Agent and all interest earned thereon, less one half (1/2) of  
    applicable escrow fees and 1/2 of any title costs shall be returned to  
    Purchaser, and the Seller shall pay to the Escrow Agent the remaining  
    one half (1/2) of the escrow fees and 1/2 of any title costs.  If such  
    termination notice is not given within such five (5)-day period,  
    Purchaser and Seller shall be conclusively deemed to have elected to  
    have waived the conditions precedent specified in Paragraph 11.  
  
    13.    CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO PERFORMANCE OF AGREEMENT BY SELLER.  
    Seller shall be obligated to complete the transaction only upon the  
    satisfaction or waiver of each of the following conditions:  
  
      a.  Purchaser shall have complied with all of the terms and  
    conditions of this Agreement, including, without limitation, payment  
    to the Escrow Agent of the Purchase Price, in the form and as adjusted  
    as provided in this Agreement;  
  
      b.  Purchaser shall have executed and delivered a Real Estate Excise  
    Tax Affidavit to Escrow Agent claiming an exemption from the real  
    estate excise tax based on WAC 458-61-420(c) based on Purchaser's  
    threat of the exercise of Purchaser's power of eminent domain.  
  
      c.  The representations and warranties made by Purchaser in this  
    Agreement are true on and as of the date of Closing with the same  
    effect as though such representations and warranties had been made on  
    and as of the date of Closing; and  
  
      d.  Purchaser shall order and deliver to Seller title insurance  
    commitment for the issuance of a standard coverage. The Title  
    Insurance Company shall issue such policy to Seller at Closing.  
  
      e.  Seller's Board of Trustees shall have authorized the sale of the  
    Property by resolution and such resolution shall have become  
    effective; and in the event said Boards of Trustees does not authorize  
    the sale of the Property prior to the Closing Date this Agreement  
    shall terminate and the Earnest Money shall be refunded to Buyer.  
  
    14.    LIABILITY OF SELLER.  Any and all claims arising out of or in  
    connection with this Agreement shall not be enforceable against  
    Seller, only against the Property or the proceeds of the sale thereof.  
    No partner, officer, director, shareholder, trustee, employee,  
    investment manager, advisor or agent of Seller (and no officer,  
    director, shareholder, trustee, employee, investment manager, advisor  
    or agent of such person) shall have any personal liability arising out  
    of or in connection with this Agreement.  
  
    15.    ESTABLISHMENT OF ESCROW AND CLOSING.  
  
      a.  Establishment of Escrow.  Purchaser shall open an escrow account  
    with Chicago Title Company of Washington, Inc. (the "Escrow Agent") by  
    delivering a copy of this Agreement together with the Earnest Money as  
    set forth in Paragraph 2.  
  
      b.  Escrow Instructions.  The provisions of this Agreement shall  
    constitute the joint instructions of the Parties to the Escrow Agent;  
    provided, however, that the Parties shall execute such additional  
    instructions as requested by the Escrow Agent not inconsistent with  
    the provisions of this Agreement.  
  
      c.  Date of Closing.  The closing of the sale and purchase of the  
    Property (the "Closing") shall occur on March 30, 2003, or earlier if  
    mutually agreed in writing by the Parties (the "date of Closing" or  
    the "Closing Date").  
  
      (i)  In the event that the legislation necessary to approve this  
    transaction has not become effective as of the Closing Date, the  
    Closing Date shall automatically extend in 30 day increments for a  
    maximum of 60 days to permit enactment of the legislation.  
  
      (ii)  In the event that the lot line adjustments have not been  
    approved as of the Closing Date, the Closing Date shall automatically  
    extend in 30 day increments for a maximum of 60 days to permit  
    completion of the approval process.  
  
      d.  Purchaser's Closing Obligations and Instruments.  At Closing,  
    Purchaser shall deliver all of the funds and documents required of  
    Purchaser under the terms of this Agreement.  
  
      e.  Seller's Closing Obligations and Instruments.  At Closing,  
    Seller shall deliver all of the funds and documents required of Seller  
    under the terms of this Agreement and a fully executed Certificate of  
    Non-Foreign Status.  
  
      f.  Escrow Agent's Obligations.  At Closing, following receipt of  
    sufficient funds and documents necessary to close this transaction  
    from the Parties, the Escrow Agent shall pay the closing costs and all  
    recording fees from the appropriate fund source, and shall record the  
    Deed.  
  
      g.  Proration and Expenses.  Real property taxes, assessments,  
    Surface Water Management charges, Conservation Service Charges, and  
    utility charges constituting liens against the Property, all for the  
    year of Closing, shall be prorated as of the date of Closing.  Seller  
    shall pay any documentary transfer tax, real estate excise tax, or  
    other similar tax lien in accordance with the requirements of lawful  
    authority.  Purchaser shall pay the cost of recording the Deed.  
    Seller shall pay the premium for the issuance of the Title Commitment  
    and the standard coverage title policy to be issued at Closing.  All  
    other recording and closing costs (including the escrow fee but  
    excluding attorneys' fees, costs and expenses associated therewith)  
    shall be shared equally by the Parties.  Each Party shall pay the  
    attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses incurred by such Party with  
    respect to the negotiation of this Agreement and the consummation of  
    the transactions contemplated herein.  
  
    16.    POSSESSION.  The Purchaser shall be entitled to exclusive  
    possession of the Property upon recording of the Deed and delivery of  
    Seller's proceeds to Seller.  
  
    17.    DEFAULT.  If either Party to this Agreement shall fail or  
    refuse to perform or satisfy a material obligation under this  
    Agreement, that Party shall be in default and the non-defaulting Party  
    may elect from the following remedies.  
  
      a.  Purchaser's Remedies.  In the event the Seller defaults in any  
    material obligations under this Agreement, the Purchaser may elect to  
    rescind this Agreement as its sole remedy.  
  
      b.  Seller's Remedies.  In the event the Purchaser defaults in any  
    of its material obligations under this Agreement, Seller, at its  
    option, and as its sole remedy, retain the Earnest Money Deposit and  
    interest as liquidated damages.  
  
    18.    CONDITION OF PROPERTY. The Property shall be delivered to  
    Purchaser at Closing in substantially the same physical condition as  
    of the date hereof, excepting ordinary wear and tear.  
  
    19.    LIMITATION OF WARRANTIES. NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER PROVISION  
    OF THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY INVESTIGATION OF THE PROPERTY, PURCHASER  
    ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT IT IS PURCHASING THE PROPERTY IN ITS "AS  
    IS", "WHERE IS" AND "WITH ALL FAULTS" CONDITION AS OF THE CLOSING DATE  
    AND THAT NEITHER SELLER NOR ANY OF ITS EMPLOYEES OR AGENTS HAS MADE  
    ANY EXPRESS WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER  
    REGARDING THE CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO  
    ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES AND/OR HAZARDOUS WASTE ON THE PROPERTY, OR ITS  
    SUITABILITY FOR THE INTENDED USE AND NONE SHALL BE IMPLIED BY LAW.  
    THE PARTIES INTEND THAT, AFTER WAIVER OF PURCHASER'S CONTINGENCY SET  
    FORTH IN PARAGRAPH 11, THE RISK OF AND LIABILITY FOR UNKNOWN  
    ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES OR HAZARDOUS WASTE ON THE PROPERTY IS ALLOCATED  
    TO PURCHASER.  THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT THE LIMITATION  
    OF WARRANTIES AND DISCLAIMERS SET FORTH HEREIN HAVE BEEN SPECIFICALLY  
    NEGOTIATED BY THE PARTIES WITH THE ADVICE OF COUNSEL.  
  
    20.    RISK OF LOSS.  Risk of loss or damage to the Property by fire  
    or other casualty, from the date of this Agreement through the date of  
    Closing, shall be on the Seller, and thereafter shall be on the  
    Purchaser.  
  
    21.    CONDEMNATION.  If, prior to the date of Closing, all or any  
    part of the Property is taken by condemnation by a superior  
    governmental authority, the Purchaser may elect to cancel this  
    Agreement by giving Seller notice to that effect, whereupon the Escrow  
    Agent shall return the Earnest Money Deposit and all interest earned  
    thereon to the Purchaser and both Parties shall be relieved and  
    released from any liability hereunder to the other.  Alternatively,  
    the Purchaser may elect to take title to the Property in accordance  
    with the terms and conditions of this Agreement without reduction of  
    the Purchase Price and shall be entitled to receive from the  
    condemning authority any condemnation award or benefit.  If Purchaser  
    purchases the Property and complies with all of the terms of this  
    Agreement, Seller assigns to Purchaser all of its right, title and  
    interest in and to any condemnation award or benefit, if any, that may  
    be owing to the owner of the Property as a result of the condemnation  
    or taking of, or damage or change to the Property.  The foregoing  
    notwithstanding, Seller does not assign to Purchaser the proceeds from  
    any insurance policy maintained by Seller with regard to the Property  
    and retains any and all such proceeds.  
  
    22.    BROKERS; INDEMNIFICATION BY PURCHASER AND SELLER.  Purchaser  
    and Seller represent and warrant to and agree with each other that no  
    person or entity is entitled to be paid a fee or commission in  
    connection with the transfer of the Property by Seller to Purchaser.  
    If any individual or entity shall assert a claim to a finder's fee or  
    commission as a broker or a finder for the transfer of the Property,  
    then the Party that is alleged to have retained such individual or  
    entity shall defend, indemnify and hold the other Party harmless from  
    and against any such claim and all costs, expenses, liabilities and  
    damages incurred in connection with such claim or any action or  
    proceeding brought thereon.  This indemnification obligation shall  
    survive the Closing and the termination of this Agreement.  
  
    23.    ASSIGNMENT; BINDING EFFECT.  No consent shall be required for  
    an assignment of the Seller's interests in this Agreement to a parent,  
    subsidiary, affiliate or corporate successor of Seller by merger,  
    consolidation, reorganization or transfer of all or substantially all  
    of the assets of such Party.  Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement  
    shall be binding upon each Party and its assigns and successors.  
  
    24.    NOTICES.  All notices, requests, demands and other  
    communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall  
    either be delivered in person or sent by private overnight carrier or  
    by registered or certified mail through the U.S. Postal Service with  
    postage prepaid as follows:  
  
    (a)  If to Seller, to:    Jon Echols, Executive Director  
  
    Western Washington Painters Labor Management  
  
      Cooperation Trust  
  
    6770 East Marginal Way South  
  
    Seattle, Washington 98108  
  
      with copy to:    Robert Bohrer, Trust Counsel  
  
            Ekman, Bohrer & Thulin  
  
            220 West Mercer Street, Suite 400  
  
            Seattle, Washington 98119  
  
    (b)  If to Purchaser, to:  Attn: Joan Rosenstock  
  
    The City of Seattle - Fleets and Facilities Department  
  
    Real Estate Services Division  
  
    14th Floor, Alaska Building  
  
    618 Second Avenue  
  
    Seattle, Washington 98104  
  
      with copy to:  William McGillin, Assistant City Attorney  
  
    The City of Seattle - Law Department  
  
    10th Floor, Municipal Building  
  
    600 Fourth Avenue  
  
    Seattle, Washington 98104  
  
    or to such other address as shall be furnished in writing with ten  
    (10) days prior written notice by either Party to the other.  Notices  
    shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of actual receipt,  
    as evidenced by the deliverer's affidavit, the recipient's  
    acknowledgment of receipt, or the private overnight carrier's receipt,  
    and in the event of attempted delivery during normal business hours at  
    the proper address by an agent of a Party or by private overnight  
    carrier or the U.S. Postal Service but refused acceptance, shall be  
    deemed to have been given upon attempted delivery, as evidenced by an  
    affidavit of inability to deliver stating the time, date, place and  
  
    manner in which such delivery was attempted and the manner in which  
    such delivery was refused.  
  
    25.    GOVERNING LAW.  The law of the State of Washington shall govern  
    this Agreement.  
  
    26.    TIME OF THE ESSENCE; CALCULATION OF TIME PERIODS.  
  
      a.  Time is of the Essence.  Time is of the essence of this  
    Agreement and of all acts required to be done and performed by either  
    and both of the Parties hereto, including but not limited to the  
    proper delivery of all documents, and the tender of all amounts of  
    money, required by the terms hereof to be delivered or paid,  
    respectively.  Any extension of time granted for performance of any  
    obligation to this Agreement shall not be considered an extension of  
    time for the performance of any other obligation under this Agreement.  
  
      b.  Time Periods.  Unless otherwise specified, in computing any  
    period of time described in this Agreement, the day of the act or  
    event after which the designated period of time begins to run is not  
    to be included and the last day of the period so computed is to be  
    included, unless such last day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.  
    The final day of any such period shall be deemed to end at 5:00 p.m.,  
    Pacific Time.  
  
    27.    SURVIVAL.  The representations and warranties of the Parties  
    contained in this Agreement shall survive indefinitely the Closing,  
    will not be merged into the Deed and other documents delivered at  
    Closing, and shall continue in full force and effect through and after  
    the Closing Date.  
  
    28.    COUNTERPARTS.  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts  
    and, if so, only when counterparts are delivered to the Escrow Agent,  
    with the signatures of each and every one of the Parties constituting  
    the Purchaser and Seller, shall it be deemed a binding Agreement.  It  
    is understood, agreed and acknowledged that if both Purchaser and  
    Seller have not executed a counterpart of this Agreement and deposited  
    signed copies, accompanied by the Earnest Money Deposit with the  
    Escrow Agent as provided for in Paragraphs 2, 8, and 11, this  
    Agreement shall be of no force and effect.  
  
    29.    WAIVER.  Any waiver under this Agreement must be in writing.  
    A waiver of any right or remedy in the event of a default shall not  
    constitute a waiver of such right or remedy in the event of any  
    subsequent default.  No writing other than a document signed by the  
    Purchaser's Fleets and Facilities Department Director, specifically so  
    stating that it is a waiver shall constitute a waiver by Purchaser of  
    any particular breach or default by Seller, nor shall such a writing  
    waive Seller's failure to fully comply with any other term or  
    condition of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge that any  
    officer or employee of Purchaser may have of such breach, default, or  
    noncompliance.  
  
    30.    ENTIRE AGREEMENT.  This Agreement, including any Exhibits  
    attached hereto (which by this reference are incorporated herein),  
    represents the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to the  
    Property and any and all agreements, oral or written, entered into  
    prior to the date hereof are revoked and superceded by this Agreement.  
  
    31.    MODIFICATIONS.  This Agreement may not be changed, modified or  
    rescinded except in writing signed by both Parties and any attempt at  
    oral modification of this Agreement shall be of no effect.  
  
    32.    NEGOTIATED UNDERSTANDING.  The Parties to this Agreement  
    acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the  
    opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal  
    counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not  
    to be construed against any Party on the basis of such Party's  
    draftsmanship thereof.  
  
    33.    FURTHER INSTRUMENTS AND ACTION.  Each Party hereto shall,  
    promptly upon the request of the other or Escrow Agent, have executed,  
    acknowledged and delivered to the other, any and all further  
    instruments and shall take all such further action as is reasonably  
    requested or appropriate to evidence or give effect to the provisions  
    of this Agreement or to satisfy Escrow Agent's requirements.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Seller and Purchaser have caused this Agreement to  
    be executed by officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and  
    year first above written, which shall be the date that the last of  
    Seller and Purchaser shall have executed this Agreement.  
  
    WESTERN WASHINGTON PAINTERS &  
  
    ALLIED TRADES APPRENTICESHIP &  
  
    TRAINING TRUST    THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    ("Seller")     ("Purchaser")  
  
    By: ___________________________________  By:  
    ________________________________  
  
      Mike Cassidy         John Franklin, Director  
  
      Chairman         Fleets and Facilities Department  
  
    By: ___________________________________  
  
      Mike Ball  
  
      Secretary  
  
    Date: __________________________________  Date:  
    _______________________________  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
                     ) ss.  (Acknowledgment for The City of Seattle)  
  
    COUNTY OF KING             )  
  
    On this ____ day of ______________________, 2003, before me, the  
    undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly  
    commissioned and sworn, personally appeared John Franklin, to me known  
    to be the Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department of The City  
    of Seattle, who executed the foregoing agreement, and acknowledged the  
    same to be the free and voluntary act and deed of The City of Seattle  
    for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that  
    he was authorized to execute said agreement.  
  
    GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year written above  
    in this certificate.  
  
    ________________________________  __________________________________  
  
    (Signature)    (Printed or typed name of Notary Public)  
  
    Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,  
  
    residing at ______________________________  
  
    My appointment expires ___________________.  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
                     ) ss.  (Acknowledgment by WWPATT)  
  
    COUNTY OF KING             )  
  
    On this ____ day of ______________________, 2003, before me, the  
    undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly  
    commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Mike Cassidy and Mike  
    Ball, to me known to be the Chairman and Secretary, respectively, of  
    the Western Washington Painters & Allied Trades Apprenticeship &  
    Training Trust, who executed the foregoing document, and acknowledged  
    the same to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation  
    for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that  
    he was authorized to execute such document for and on behalf of said  
    corporation.  
  
    GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year written above  
    in this certificate.  
  
    ________________________________  __________________________________  
  
    (Signature)    (Printed or typed name of Notary Public)  
  
    Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,  
  
    residing at ______________________________  
  
    My appointment expires ___________________.  
  
    EXHIBIT 2  
  
    STATUTORY WARRANTY DEED  
  
    THE GRANTOR  
  
    For and in consideration of ____________________________ in hand paid,  
    conveys and warrants to _____________________________________ the  
    following described real estate, situated in the County of  
    ____________________________State of Washington:  
  
    LEGAL  DESCRIPTION  
  
    A portion of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section  
    31 and the Southwest Quarter of Section 32, all lying within Township  
    24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington, described as  
    follows:  
  
    Beginning at the most Easterly corner of Parcel A of City of Seattle  
    Boundary Adjustment No. 2106493 as recorded under Auditor's file No.  
    20020426900001;  
  
    Thence S 56 degrees 16'11" E, along the Southeasterly extension of the  
    Northeasterly line of said Parcel A, for a distance of 200.12 feet to  
    a point of tangency with a curve to the left having a radius of 130.00  
    feet;  
  
    Thence Southerly and Easterly, along said curve, for an arc length  
    distance of 116.98 feet, through a central angle of 51 degrees 33'30" to a  
    point of tangency with a line bearing N 72 degrees 10'19" E;  
  
    Thence N 72 degrees 10'19" E, along said line, for a distance of 74.06 feet to  
    the Westerly margin of Myers Way South;  
  
    Thence S 18 degrees 16'47" E, along said Westerly margin, for a distance of  
    51.08 feet to the South line of Parcel B of said City of Seattle  
    Boundary Adjustment No. 2106493;  
  
    Thence N 88 degrees 38'35" W, along said South line, for a distance of 168.91  
    feet to a point on the East line of  said Section 31;  
  
    Thence S 01 degrees 07'31" W, along said East line, for a distance of 209.46  
    feet to the Southeast corner of said Parcel B;  
  
    Thence N 88 degrees 23'36" W, along the South line of said Parcel B, for a  
    distance of 423.25 feet to the Southwest corner of said Parcel B;  
  
    Thence N 33 degrees 43'49" E, along the line common to Parcel B and Parcel A  
    in said Boundary Adjustment No. 2106493, for a distance of 416.21 feet  
    to the Point of Beginning.  
  
    Additional on page _____  
  
    Assessor's Tax Parcel ID# ____________________  
  
    Dated ____________________________________  
  
                    GRANTOR  
  
    Notary Seal  
  
    The following language is to be inserted after signature block and  
    before acknowledgements in documents which convey to the City of  
    Seattle, an interest in real property:  
  
    ACCEPTANCE  
  
      I, John Franklin, hereby certify that I am the Director of the  
    Fleets and Facilities Department of the City of Seattle, and that I  
    have been duly and expressly authorized by Seattle City Ordinance  
    ______________ to accept on behalf of the City of Seattle, that  
    certain Statutory Warranty Deed from Western Washington Painters &  
    Allied Trades Apprenticeship and Training Trust Fund, Grantor to the  
    City of Seattle, Grantee and dated ____________, 2003 as the formal  
    act of acceptance for the City of Seattle and cause the same, together  
    with this certificate to be recorded in the records of King County,  
    and by my signature affixed to this certificate do hereby accept the  
    deed described hereon.  
  
    Dated at Seattle, Washington, this ____day of ____________, 2003.  
  
                  ________________________________  
  
                  John Franklin, Director  
  
                  Fleets and Facilities Department  
  
                  City of Seattle  
  
    State of Washington  )  
  
          ) ss.  
  
    County of King  )  
  
    I hereby certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence  
    ____________________________  
    ______________________________________________ is the person(s) who  
    appeared before me, and said person(s) acknowledged that (he, she,  
    they) signed this instrument and acknowledged it to be (his, her,  
    their) free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes mentioned in  
    this instrument.  
  
    Dated _______________________________  
  
    _______________________________________  
  
    Notary Public in and for the State of Washington  
  
    residing at_______________________________  
  
    My appointment expires____________________  
  
    _______________________________________  
  
    Printed Name  
  
    EXHIBIT A  
  
    LEGAL DESCRIPTION  
  
    A portion of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section  
    31 and the Southwest Quarter of Section 32, all lying within Township  
    24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington, described as  
    follows:  
  
    Beginning at the most Easterly corner of Parcel A of City of Seattle  
    Boundary Adjustment No. 2106493 as recorded under Auditor's file No.  
    20020426900001;  
  
    Thence S 56 degrees 16'11" E, along the Southeasterly extension of the  
    Northeasterly line of said Parcel A, for a distance of 200.12 feet to  
    a point of tangency with a curve to the left having a radius of 130.00  
    feet;  
  
    Thence Southerly and Easterly, along said curve, for an arc length  
    distance of 116.98 feet, through a central angle of 51 degrees 33'30" to a  
    point of tangency with a line bearing N 72 degrees 10'19" E;  
  
    Thence N 72 degrees 10'19" E, along said line, for a distance of 74.06 feet to  
    the Westerly margin of Myers Way South;  
  
    Thence S 18 degrees 16'47" E, along said Westerly margin, for a distance of  
    51.08 feet to the South line of Parcel B of said City of Seattle  
    Boundary Adjustment No. 2106493;  
  
    Thence N 88 degrees 38'35" W, along said South line, for a distance of 168.91  
    feet to a point on the East line of  said Section 31;  
  
    Thence S 01 degrees 07'31" W, along said East line, for a distance of 209.46  
    feet to the Southeast corner of said Parcel B;  
  
    Thence N 88 degrees 23'36" W, along the South line of said Parcel B, for a  
    distance of 423.25 feet to the Southwest corner of said Parcel B;  
  
    Thence N 33 degrees 43'49" E, along the line common to Parcel B and Parcel A  
    in said Boundary Adjustment No. 2106493, for a distance of 416.21 feet  
    to the Point of Beginning.  
  
    EXHIBIT B  
  
    Reciprocal Agreement Between Western Washington Painters & Allied  
    Trades Apprenticeship & Training Trust and the City of Seattle  
  
    1.0   Definitions  
  
    "Allied Trades" shall mean the Western Washington Painters & Allied  
    Trades Apprenticeship & Training Trust.  
  
    The "City" shall mean the City of Seattle.  
  
    "P&R Lot" shall mean the Metro King County Park and Ride Facility.  
  
    "Property" shall mean the parcel of land described in Exhibit A of the  
    Agreement dated November 28, 2002.  
  
    "Closing" shall mean the date of the recording of the conveyance of  
    the parcel legally described in Exhibit A of the Agreement dated  
    November 28, 2002.  
  
    "Exhibit G" shall mean the Reciprocal Easement Agreement with King  
    County (King County Recording #20020430002896  
  
    "Develop" or "development" shall mean the undertaking by the City or  
    any work on the Property that requires a clearing and grading or  
    building permit from the City of Seattle.  
  
    "Access easement" or "roadway easement" shall mean the easement for so  
    long as the County owns the P&R Lot, for use by its transit vehicles,  
    contractors, employees, agents and transit customers for use of the  
    access easement across the Allied Trades' property  
  
    2.0   Access/Egress and Utilities Modifications  
  
    Allied Trades acknowledges obligations under the terms of "Exhibit G"  
    Reciprocal Easement Agreement with King County (King County Recording  
    #20020430002896) incorporated by reference herein. The City  
    acknowledges easements and obligations outlined in Exhibit G and agree  
    to assist and cooperate with Allied Trades in their implementation.  
  
    3.0   Ingress/Egress and Utility Easement  
  
    The City shall share equally with Allied Trades costs to maintain,  
    repair and replace the access roadway as needed.  In addition, the  
    City shall reimburse the Allied Trades for 100% of the cost to repair  
    any damages to the access roadway associated with the City's  
    development of the Property, and return the roadway to a condition  
    that complies with the current American Public Works Association  
    standards.  The City shall have the right to review and approve  
    proposed costs before any work is undertaken.  
  
    4.0   Lighting and Power Easement  
  
    The City shall develop and install its own power service lines and  
    meters for its development.  At such time as separate service lines  
    and meters are installed, the City shall reimburse the Allied Trades  
    for 50% of the costs to operate, repair, replace, re-lamp and provide  
    power to the light fixtures identified as "A" in Exhibit G (King  
    County Agreement).  
  
    At Closing, the City shall make a one time payment to the Allied  
    Trades for the City's share of costs to connect all "A" lights to the  
    Allied Trades' meter and "M" lights to the County's existing meter,  
    and to adjust the light fixture located along the eastern border of  
    the P&R Lot as indicated in Exhibit G.  
  
    5.0   Storm Water Drainage  
  
    The City shall construct its own storm water drainage system to  
    service its development.  At Closing, the City shall make a one time  
    contribution to the Allied Trades, to construct a separate storm water  
    drainage system for the P&R Lot and for the installation of a concrete  
    barrier on the southeast side of the P&R Lot.  
  
    6.0   Sanitary Sewer  
  
    The City will take the lead with KC Metro staff to facilitate approval  
    of a new composting toilet and hand washing facilities for the P&R  
    Lot.  If KC Metro approval does not occur, the City shall share  
    equally with the Allied Trades costs to construct a new sanitary sewer  
    line for KC Metro that connects to the City sanitary sewer system for  
    its new training building.  
  
    7.0   Water Supply  
  
    The City shall be responsible for installing, at its own expense, a  
    separate water supply line to service its development.  
  
    8.0   Parking  
  
    The City shall not construct a fence or other improvement within three  
    feet of the eastern boundary line of the KC Metro P&R Lot that would  
    interfere with the overhang of vehicles that park in the County Lot.  
  
    The City shall pay 50% of the costs of the area used for the  
    covenanted 82 parking stalls for 30 years, including maintenance,  
    repairs, and lighting.  In addition, the City will pay a 50% share of  
    the annual assessed real property tax allocable to the covenanted  
    parking area.  The City's portion of the tax shall be derived by  
    dividing the total assessed real property tax by the total number of  
    square feet of land owned by the Allied Trades as of the date of this  
    Agreement, or as of the date of assessment (whichever square footage  
    area is the lesser), to establish the tax per square foot.  The tax  
    per square foot result shall then be multiplied by the number of  
    square feet occupied by the covenanted parking spaces, which sum shall  
    then be multiplied by 50%.  The fee shall be adjusted based on the  
    annual property tax portion pertaining to the land valuation.  
  
    The Allied Trades shall provide a semi-annual bill to the City with  
    itemized costs and expenses supporting the invoice.  
  
    9.0   One Time Payment  
  
    At Closing, the City shall make a one-time payment of FORTY ONE  
    THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED NINETY THREE DOLLARS ($41,293) to the Allied  
    Trades, toward their cost of implementing Exhibit G (King County  
    Agreement).  
  
    EXHIBIT C  
  
    Seller's Reciprocal Easement Agreement (Exhibit G) with Metro King  
    County - recorded in King County Records (rec. #20020430002896) is  
    incorporated by reference herein.  
  
    EXHIBIT E  
  
    PARKING CONVENANT  
  
    For and in consideration of the mutual promises, provisions and  
    agreements contained in that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement  
    executed between The Western Washington Painters & Allied Trades  
    Apprenticeship and Training Trust ("Allied Trades") as Grantor and the  
    City of Seattle as Grantee and dated       , 2003, the parties hereby  
    enter into this covenant relating to off-site accessory parking which  
    shall be recorded with King County in Compliance with SMC 23.54.025.  
  
    WHEREAS, the Grantor owns the property depicted on Attachment 1 herein  
    called the "Accessory Parking Site" and legally described as:  
  
    New Parcel B:  
  
    A portion of the Southeast Quarter of Section 31 and of the Southwest  
    Quarter of Section 32, all lying within Township 24 North, Range 4  
    East, W.M., in King County, Washington;  
  
    Described as follows:  
  
    Commencing at the Southeast corner of said Section 31;  
  
    Thence N 01 degrees 07'31" E, along the East line of said Section 31, for  
    30.00 feet to the Northerly margin of Southwest Roxbury Street;  
  
    Thence N 88 degrees 23'36" W, along said Northerly margin, for 624.14 feet to  
    the Easterly margin of Second Avenue Southwest;  
  
    Thence N 01 degrees 03'31" E, along said Easterly margin, for 177.87 feet;  
  
    Thence S 88 degrees 23'36" E for 1019.46 feet to the Westerly margin of Myers  
    Way South;  
  
    Thence N 18 degrees 16'47" W, along said Westerly margin, for 731.87 to The  
    Point of Beginning for the herein described New Parcel B;  
  
    Thence S 72 degrees 10 19" W for 74.06 feet to a point of tangency with a  
    curve to the right having a radius of 130.00 feet:  
  
    Thence Westerly and Northerly, along said curve, for an arc length  
    distance of 116.98 feet through a central angle of 51 degrees 33'30" to a  
    point of tangency with a line bearing N 56 degrees 16'11" W;  
  
    Thence N 56 degrees 16'11" W, along said line, for 200.12 feet to the most  
    Easterly corner of Parcel A of City of Seattle Boundary Adjustment No.  
    2106493 as recorded under King County Auditor's file No.  
    20020426900001;  
  
    Thence continuing at N 56 degrees 16'11" W, along the Northwesterly line of  
    said Parcel A, for 111.93 feet to a point of tangency with a curve to  
    the left having a radius of 40.00 feet;  
  
    Thence Westerly, along said curve and Northwesterly line, for an arc  
    length distance of 35.59 feet through a central angle of 50 degrees 58'22" to  
    a point on the Easterly margin of 2nd Avenue Southwest;  
  
    Thence N 33 degrees 43'49" E, along said Easterly margin, for 185.61 feet to a  
    point of tangency with a curve to the left having a radius of 145.00  
    feet;  
  
    Thence Northerly and Westerly, along said curve and Easterly margin,  
    for an arc length distance of 202.48 feet through a central angle of  
    80 degrees 00'33" to a point of tangency with a line bearing N 46 degrees 16'44" W;  
  
    Thence N 46 degrees 16'44" W, along said line and Easterly margin, for 42.93  
    feet to the Easterly margin of Olson Place Southwest;  
  
    Thence N 43 degrees 43'16" E, along said Easterly margin of Olson Place  
    Southwest, for 264.40 feet to the Westerly margin of Myers Way South;  
  
    Thence S 18 degrees 16'47" E, along said Westerly margin of Myers Way South,  
    for 162.70 feet to the Westerly margin of 1st Avenue South;  
  
    Thence S 01 degrees 07'31" W, along said Westerly margin of 1st Avenue South,  
    for 165.66 feet to the South margin of vacated Olsen Place Southwest;  
  
    Thence S 88 degrees 52'29" E, along said South margin, for 50.00 feet to the  
    East line of said Section 31;  
  
    Thence N 01 degrees 07'31" E, along said East line, for 23.72 feet to the  
    Westerly margin of Myers Way South;  
  
    Thence S 18 degrees 16'47" E, along said Westerly margin, for 457.30 feet to  
    The Point of Beginning; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Grantee is the owner of the adjacent property depicted on  
    Attachment 2 and legally described as:  
  
    A portion of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section  
    31 and the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 32,  
    all lying within Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King  
    County, Washington;  
  
    Described as follows:  
  
    Commencing at the Southeast corner of said Section 31;  
  
    Thence N 01 degrees 07'31" E, along the East line of said Section 31, for  
    30.00 feet to the Northerly margin of Southwest Roxbury Street;  
  
    Thence N 88 degrees 23'36" W, along said Northerly margin, for 624.14 feet to  
    the Easterly margin of Second Avenue Southwest;  
  
    Thence N 01 degrees 03'31" E, along said Easterly margin, for 177.87 feet to  
    The Point of Beginning for the herein described New Lot 3;  
  
    Thence S 88 degrees 23'36" E for 1019.46 feet to the Westerly margin of Myers  
    Way South;  
  
    Thence N 18 degrees 16'47" W, along said Westerly margin, for 731.87;  
  
    Thence S 72 degrees 10 19" W for 74.06 feet to a point of tangency with a  
    curve to the right having a radius of 130.00 feet:  
  
    Thence Westerly and Northerly, along said curve, for an arc length  
    distance of 116.98 feet through a central angle of 51 degrees 33'30" to a  
    point of tangency with a line bearing N 56 degrees 16'11" W;  
  
    Thence N 56 degrees 16'11" W, along said line, for 200.12 feet to the most  
    Easterly corner of Parcel A of City of Seattle Boundary Adjustment No.  
    2106493 as recorded under King County Auditor's file No.  
    20020426900001;  
  
    Thence S 33 degrees 43'49" W, along the Southeasterly line of said Parcel A,  
    for 416.21 feet to the Southeast corner of said Parcel A;  
  
    Thence N 88 degrees 23'36" W, along the South line of said Parcel A, for  
    167.47 feet to the Southwest corner of said Parcel A, being a point on  
    the Easterly margin of 2nd Avenue Southwest, said point lying on a  
    curve to the left having a radius of 300.00 feet, from which a radial  
    line bears S61 degrees 20'37" E;  
  
    Thence Southerly and Westerly, along said curve, for an arc length  
    distance of 144.50 feet through a central angle of 27 degrees 35'52" to a  
    point of tangency with a line bearing S 01 degrees 03'31" W;  
  
    Thence S 01 degrees 03'31" W, along said line, for 290.71 to The Point of  
    Beginning; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Section 23.54.025 of the Land Use Code (SMC Title 23) of the  
    City of Seattle requires the owner of parking spaces on a lot other,  
    than the lot of the use to which those spaces are accessory shall be  
    responsible for notifying the Director should the use of the lot for  
    covenant parking cease.  In this event, the principal use must be  
    discontinued, other parking meeting the requirements of the Code must  
    be provided within thirty (30) days, or a variance must be applied for  
    within fourteen (14) days and subsequently granted;  
  
    NOW THEREFORE, the Grantor hereby grants the following covenant which  
    is intended to run with the land, benefiting the parcel owned by  
    Grantee and burdening the parcel owned by Grantor upon the following  
    conditions:  
  
    1.  The Grantor hereby grants to the Grantee a covenant to use 82  
    legally established parking spaces on the property owned by Grantor as  
    depicted on Attachment 1.  The Grantee shall be entitled to use the  
    same for required off-street parking spaces for the immediately  
    adjacent property owned by the Grantee Monday thru Friday, 7:00 AM to  
    7:00 PM. The covenant parking area shall be diverted or converted to  
    no use that will limit or restrict the off-street parking accessory to  
    the Grantee's use during the term of the covenant, beginning at  
    Closing as defined in the Purchase and Sale Agreement identified  
    above.  This covenant shall terminate on February 20, 2033.  
  
    2.  The Covenanted parking shall be located on an area of the  
    Grantor's site adjacent to the Roadway Easement."  The design and  
    location of the parking area shall be agreed to by the Grantee and  
    Grantor before Closing.  
  
    3.  The cost for maintenance, repairs and lighting shall be split  
    equally between the City and Allied Trades.  In addition, and the City  
    shall pay 50% of the annual assessed real property tax allocable to  
    the covenanted parking area The Allied Trades shall provide the City  
    with an itemized explanation of all expenses in bi-annual invoices.  
  
    4.  This Covenant shall be recorded with King County.  
  
    5.  The Grantee hereby agrees that upon termination of this covenant  
    for Accessory Parking, other parking spaces will be provided to  
    replace the off-site required spaces covenanted herein, or the Grantee  
    will request a variance within 14 days, or shall relocate the required  
    parking to property owned by Grantee and acceptable to the City for  
    use as off-site Accessory Parking.  
  
    6.  The Grantor and Grantee agree to Notify the Director of the  
    Department of Construction and Land Use of the City of Seattle,  
    immediately, if the covenant is to be terminated for any reason.  
  
    7.  The City shall indemnify and hold harmless Allied Trades for any  
    claims or incidences which may occur on the covenanted parking area  
    that are the result of the City's usage.  
  
    ______________________________________  
  
    Western Washington Painters & Allied Trades  
  
    Apprenticeship & Training Trust Fund, Grantor  
  
    ______________________________________  
  
    Owner of Accessory Parking Site, Secretary  
  
    Western Washington Painters & Allied Trades  
  
                 Apprenticeship & Training Trust Fund  
  
    ______________________________________  
  
    The City of Seattle, Grantee  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
            ) ss.  
  
    COUNTY OF KING    )  
  
      On this day personally appeared before me,  
    _______________________________ and _________________________________,  
    to me known to be the individuals described in and who executed the  
    within and foregoing instrument and acknowledged that they signed the  
    same as their free_____________ voluntary ______________deed, for the  
    uses and purposes therein mentioned.  
  
    Given under my hand this _____ day of __________________, 2003.  
  
                ________________________________________  
  
                    (print or type names)  
  
                Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,  
  
                residing at ______________________________  
  
                My commission expires ___________________  
