* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114577**   
**Ordinance Number: 121185**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the acquisition of a portion of certain property owned by the Seattle Housing Authority and located westerly of 10th Avenue South and southerly of East Yesler Way and rights associated therewith; authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to accept a special warranty deed conveying the property described herein; authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to execute an Interagency Agreement with the Seattle Housing Authority for the replacement of the Yesler Community Center; and making an appropriation of reimbursable funds from the Seattle Housing Authority to the 1999 Seattle Center/Community Centers Fund to pay costs related to the design of the development planned for the property; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 16, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: Nicastro)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 26, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 25, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 27, 2003   
**Committee:** Parks, Education and Libraries   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK   
  
**Index Terms:** DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, YESLER-TERRACE, SEATTLE-HOUSING-AUTHORITY, COMMUNITY-CENTERS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114577.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114577  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation;  
    authorizing the acquisition of a portion of certain property owned by  
    the Seattle Housing Authority and located westerly of 10th Avenue  
    South and southerly of East Yesler Way and rights associated  
    therewith; authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to  
    accept a special warranty deed conveying the property described  
    herein; authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to  
    execute an Interagency Agreement with the Seattle Housing Authority  
    for the replacement of the Yesler Community Center; and making an  
    appropriation of reimbursable funds from the Seattle Housing Authority  
    to the 1999 Seattle Center/Community Centers Fund to pay costs related  
    to the design of the development planned for the property; all by a  
    three-fourths vote of the City Council.  
  
    WHEREAS, the 1999 Seattle Center and Community Center Levy provides  
    funds for the replacement of the Yesler Community Center; and  
  
    WHEREAS, in the spring of 2001, a study involving Yesler Terrace  
    neighborhood residents and residents of nearby neighborhoods was  
    undertaken to select the preferred location for the new Yesler  
    Community Center; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the site preferred by residents of Yesler Terrace and nearby  
    neighborhoods is property located in the Yesler Terrace area currently  
    owned by the Seattle Housing Authority; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Board of Parks Commissioners reviewed and endorsed such  
    preferred site in September of 2001; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Seattle Housing Authority  
    adopted Resolution Number 4681 on December 20, 2002, authorizing the  
    Seattle Housing Authority to sell the land identified as the preferred  
    site for the Yesler Community Center to the City of Seattle for less  
    than fair market value;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation or his designee  
    is authorized, on behalf of The City of Seattle, to acquire, after the  
    recordation of Short Plat Number 2207828, by special warranty deed the  
    following described real property ("Property"):  
  
    All that real property described as Parcel B and shown on that  
    unrecorded Short Subdivision Number 2207828.  
  
    for a purchase price not to exceed One Dollar ($1.00).  The  
    Superintendent is further authorized to execute such documents as he  
    deems necessary or desirable to accomplish the acquisition of the  
    Property.  
  
    Section 2.  Upon delivery of a special warranty deed for the Property,  
    the Superintendent is authorized to accept the deed on behalf of The  
    City of Seattle for open space, park and recreation purposes, and the  
    Property thereafter shall be under the jurisdiction of the Department  
    of Parks and Recreation.  
  
    Section 3.  The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is hereby  
    authorized to execute and perform, on behalf of The City of Seattle,  
    an agreement with the Seattle Housing Authority Concerning Development  
    of Yesler Community Center substantially in the form of Exhibit A to  
    this ordinance and setting forth the understanding between the City of  
    Seattle and the Seattle Housing Authority concerning the conveyance of  
    the Property and its development.  
  
    Section 4.  Contingent upon the execution of the agreement authorized  
    in Section 3 above, and in order to pay for design of the Yesler  
    Community Center (CIP Project K73481) and associated housing and  
    related facilities and for necessary related costs and expenses for  
    which insufficient appropriation authority exists, the appropriation  
    for the following in the 2003 Budget is increased from the fund shown,  
    as follows:  
  
    Fund                Department    Capital             Amount  
    Improvement  
    Program  
  
    1999 Seattle        Parks and     K72654 - 1999       $475,000 or so much  
    Center/Community    Recreation    Community Center    thereof as is agreed  
    Centers Fund                      Improvements        upon with the Seattle  
    (33800)                                               Housing Authority to  
                                                          reimburse this  
                                                          appropriation  
  
      Section 7.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 8.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Exhibit A: Purchase and Sale Agreement between The Seattle Housing  
    Authority and The City of Seattle  
  
    Terry Dunning  
  
    YESLRord.DOC  
  
    4/20/03  
  
    version #3  
  
    EXHIBIT A  
  
    PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT  
  
    between  
  
    Seller:  Housing Authority of the City of Seattle  
  
    and  
  
    Buyer:  The City of Seattle  
  
    FOR IMPROVED REAL PROPERTY  
  
    Buyer, THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a first class city of the State of  
    Washington, and Seller, Housing Authority of the City of Seattle, a  
    public body, corporate and politic hereby enter into this Purchase and  
    Sale Agreement ("Agreement") as of the Effective Date.  
  
    IN CONSIDERATION of the Purchase Price, the mutual covenants set forth  
    herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and  
    sufficiency of all of which is hereby acknowledged, Seller agrees to  
    sell the Real Property to Buyer, and Buyer agrees to buy the Real  
    Property from Seller, on the terms and conditions set forth in this  
    Agreement.  Accordingly, the parties agree as follows:  
  
    1. DEFINED TERMS  
  
    2.  
  
    The terms listed below shall have the following meanings throughout  
    this Agreement:  
  
    Seller:      Housing Authority of the City of Seattle  
  
    Seller's Address:   Seattle Housing Authority  
  
          120 6th Avenue North  
  
          Seattle, WA 109  
  
    Buyer:  The City of Seattle, a first class City of the State of  
    Washington  
  
    Buyer's Address:  Seattle Law Department  
  
      600 Fourth Avenue, 10th Floor  
  
      Seattle, Washington 98104  
  
      Attn:  
  
      Fax No. (206)684 8284.  
  
    Title Company:  Pacific Northwest Title Company of Washington, Inc.  
  
    Land:  That certain land described in Exhibit A, believed to  
    contain approximately 61,901 square feet in area, together with all  
    rights and interests appurtenant thereto, including, without  
    limitation, any water and mineral rights, development rights, air  
    rights, easements and rights-of-way.  
  
    Improvements:  Any buildings and other improvements currently located  
    on or affixed to the Land.  
  
    Real Property:    The Land and the Improvements.  
  
    Personal Property:  To the extent it exists, any equipment, fixtures,  
    mechanical systems, and other personal property used in conjunction  
    with the operation of and located on the Real Property.  The parties  
    agree that the value of any Personal Property is only nominal.  
  
    Property:    The Real Property and the Personal Property.  
  
    Purchase Price:  $1.00.  (Buyer and Seller agree that the fair market  
    value of the property is $1,800,000 (One million, eight hundred  
    thousand dollars).  
  
    Closing:    Is as defined in Section 6 of this Agreement.  
  
    Closing Date:  Shall be the date the Closing takes place, but in no  
    event shall such date be more than thirty (30) Days after execution of  
    this Agreement.  
  
    Day:  A calendar day; provided, that if the last day for taking any  
    action hereunder is a Saturday, Sunday or Washington State-designated  
    holiday, the next succeeding day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or  
    Washington State-designated holiday shall be the deadline for taking  
    such action.  
  
    Effective Date:  The date upon which this Agreement has been fully  
    executed by Buyer and Seller, as evidenced by the last date appearing  
    under their respective signatures.  
  
    Environmental Law:  Any federal, state or local law, ordinance or  
    regulation pertaining or relating to health, industrial hygiene, waste  
    disposal, or the environment, including, without limitation: the  
    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act  
    of 1980 ("CERCLA"), as amended, 42 U.S.C. section 9601 et seq.; the  
    Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, Pub. L. 99-499  
    and 99-563; the Toxic Substances Control Act ("TSCA"), 15 U.S.C.  
    section 2601 et seq.; the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49  
    App. U.S.C. section 1802; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act  
    ("RCRA"), 42 U.S.C. section 6901 et seq.; the Occupational Safety and  
    Health Act of 1970 ("OSHA"), as amended, 29 U.S.C. section 651 et  
    seq.; the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. section 7401 et seq.;  
    the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. section  
    1251 et seq.; the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. section  
    201 et seq.; the Hazardous Waste Management Act, RCW Ch. 70.105; the  
    Model Toxics Control Act of the State of Washington ("MTCA"), RCW Ch.  
    70.105D; and any amendment to any such law or regulation adopted and  
    publications promulgated pursuant to all such laws.  
  
    Hazardous Material:  Any hazardous, or toxic substance, material or  
    waste,  including, but not limited to , those substances, materials  
    and wastes listed in the United States Department of Transportation  
    Hazardous Materials Table (49 C.F.R. section172.101) or by the United  
    States Environmental Protection Agency as hazardous substances (40  
    C.F.R.  pt. 302 and amendments thereto) or in the Washington Hazardous  
    Waste Management Act (Ch. 70.105D RCW) or the Model Toxics Control Act  
    (Chs. 70.105D RCW 82.21 RCW), petroleum products and their  
    derivatives, and such other substances, materials and wastes as become  
    regulated or subject to clean-up authority under any Environmental  
    Law.  
  
    3. EXHIBITS  
  
    4.  
  
    The following exhibits are attached to and form a part of this  
    Agreement:  
  
    Exhibit A - Land Description  
  
    Exhibit B - Form of Special Warranty Deed  
  
    Exhibit C - Interagency Agreement Concerning Development of Yesler  
    Community Center  
  
    Exhibit D - Declaration of Use Covenants, Restrictions and Easement  
  
    5. HUD APPROVAL  
  
    6.  
  
    Subject to the approval of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban  
    Development ("HUD") for the disposition of the site, and to the terms  
    and conditions of this Agreement, Seller agrees to sell to Buyer and  
    Buyer agrees to purchase from Seller all of the real property and  
    improvements described in Exhibit A attached hereto and by this  
    reference incorporated herein (the "Property"), which Property is  
    located in the Yesler Terrace public housing community in the City of  
    Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.  Seller has applied for  
    and shall use its best efforts to diligently pursue such HUD approval  
    in a timely manner and shall deliver to Buyer a copy of the HUD  
    determination.  Buyer agrees to work cooperatively with Seller in such  
    efforts to obtain HUD approval.  If HUD does not approve the  
    disposition of the Property, or two years from the date of this  
    Agreement, whichever shall first occur, then at either Sellers or  
    Buyer's option, this Agreement shall terminate as of the date Seller  
    receives written notice of such disapproval.  
  
    4. CONDITION OF REAL PROPERTY  
  
    5.  
  
    Buyer acknowledges that it has reviewed the Commitment for Title  
    Insurance issued by the Title Company under No. 473339 (the "Title  
    Report").  Title to the Real Property shall be conveyed to Buyer  
    subject only to Special Exceptions 1 through 5, 8 through 12, 15  
    through 29, 31 and 32 shown on Schedule B of Order No. 473339, as  
    updated on April 8, 2002, and nondelinquent installments of special  
    assessments levied against the Real Property as shown in the Title  
    Report (the "Permitted Encumbrances"). All Exceptions or Filings  
    consisting of a financial encumbrance such as a mortgage, deed of  
    trust, or other debt security, or any attachment, delinquent real  
    estate tax, assessment for an improvement or mechanic's or  
    materialmen's lien outstanding against the Real Property (a "Financial  
    Encumbrance"), are hereby deemed a disapproved Exception or Filing.  
    Seller hereby covenants to remove or cause to be satisfied any  
    Financial Encumbrance on or before the Closing Date.  
  
    6. CONVEYANCE OF TITLE  
  
    7.  
  
    Seller shall convey the Real Property to Buyer by a limited warranty  
    deed, the form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit B (the "Deed")  
    conveying to Buyer title to the Real Property in fee simple, subject  
    only to the Permitted Encumbrances, and any other exceptions that  
    Buyer approves in writing (collectively hereinafter referred to as the  
    ("Exceptions").  A condition precedent to Buyer's completing the  
    purchase of the Real Property shall be the willingness of the Title  
    Company to issue, upon payment of the Title Company's regularly  
    scheduled premium, an ALTA owner's extended coverage title insurance  
    policy in the amount of the $1,800,000 (One million, eight hundred  
    thousand dollars), showing title to the Real Property vested in Buyer  
    in fee simple, subject only to the Exceptions and the preprinted  
    exceptions commonly contained in an owner's extended policy.  
  
    8. CLOSING  
  
    9.  
  
    A.  Closing Requirements  
  
  
  
    On the Closing Date, all matters to be performed under this Agreement  
    incident to the conveyance of the Real Property and the payment of the  
    Purchase Price (collectively, the "Closing") shall be performed  
    concurrently at the offices of the Title Company.  All documents to be  
    delivered at the Closing and all payments to be made shall be  
    delivered in a timely manner, in escrow, so as to allow the recording  
    of the Deed and other instruments as are required to be recorded to  
    effect the transfer and conveyance of the Real Property and the  
    delivery of all instruments and funds on or before the Closing Date.  
    Each party shall deliver appropriate escrow instructions to the Title  
    Company consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.  
  
    B.  Buyer's Conditions to Closing  
  
  
  
    It is a condition to Buyer's obligation to proceed to Closing that, as  
    of the Closing Date, (i) all of Seller's representations and  
    warranties hereunder are true and correct;  (ii) Seller has performed  
    all of its covenants hereunder; (iii) no moratorium, statute, order,  
    regulation, ordinance or judgment of any court or governmental agency  
    (to which Buyer could not reasonably have objected within the  
    Contingency Period) has been enacted, adopted, issued or initiated  
    that would materially and adversely affect the anticipated use of the  
    Real Property or any portion thereof;  (iv) the Real Property is  
    delivered to Buyer at Closing free and clear of any occupants or  
    rights to possession, other than tenants approved under leases  
    approved or assumed by Buyer, if any; (v) the Title Company is  
    prepared to issue the Title Policy to the Buyer; (vi) Seller has  
    delivered all other documents and other deliveries required by this  
    Agreement; and (vii)  all other conditions to Buyer's obligations to  
    proceed to Closing that are set forth in this Agreement have been  
    satisfied.  
  
    C.  Seller's Conditions to Closing  
  
  
  
      It is a condition to Seller's obligation to proceed to Closing that,  
    as of the Closing Date, (i) all of Buyer's representations and  
    warranties hereunder are true and correct; (ii) Buyer has performed  
    all of its covenants hereunder; (iii) Buyer has delivered the Purchase  
    Price and all other documents and other deliveries required by this  
    Agreement, and (iv)  all other conditions to Seller's obligations to  
    proceed to Closing that are set forth in this Agreement have been  
    satisfied.  
  
    10. DELIVERIES  
  
    11.  
  
    A.  Seller's Deliveries at Closing  
  
  
  
    On or by the Closing Date, Seller shall deliver to the Title Company  
    the following documents and materials, all of which shall be in form  
    and substance reasonably acceptable to Buyer:  
  
    (i)  The duly executed and acknowledged Deed.  
  
    (ii)  Any instruments reasonably necessary to convey title in the  
    condition required by this Agreement, each of which instrument shall  
    be duly executed and, if necessary, acknowledged.  
  
    (iii)  A certificate duly executed by Seller acknowledging that as of  
    the Closing Date, all representations and warranties by Seller set  
    forth in this Agreement remain true and correct.  
  
    (iv)  A non-foreign certification, duly executed by Seller under  
    penalty of perjury, certifying that Seller is not a "foreign person"  
    as defined in or pursuant to Section 1445 (as may be amended) of the  
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 1445").  If Seller  
    shall fail or be unable to deliver the same, then Buyer shall have the  
    right to have such portion of the Purchase Price withheld by Title  
    Company in escrow as may be necessary, in the reasonable opinion of  
    the Title Company, to comply with Section 1445.  
  
    (v)  All keys held by Seller as owner, landlord, and otherwise, to all  
    doors into and within the Improvements and all building or other plans  
    relation to the Real Property.  
  
        (vi)  Such other documents as theTitle Company may reasonably  
    require to complete the Closing.  
  
    B.  Buyer's Deliveries at Closing  
  
  
  
        (i)  On or by the Closing Date Buyer shall deliver to the Title  
    Company the Purchase Price for the Property (plus any additional funds  
    necessary to pay all closing costs and prorations, as hereinafter set  
    forth) with immediately available funds.  Such delivery shall be made  
    in a timely manner to allow disbursement of the Purchase Price to  
    Seller at the time of the Closing.  
  
        (ii)  A certificate duly executed by Buyer acknowledging that as  
    of the Closing Date, all representations and warranties by Buyer set  
    forth in this Agreement remain true and correct.  
  
    (iii) Such other documents as the Title Company may reasonably require  
    to complete the Closing.  
  
    (iv)  
  
    (v) Interagency Agreement between the Seattle Housing Authority and  
    the City of Seattle Concerning the Development of Yesler Community  
    Center in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C.  
  
    (vi)  
  
    (vii) Executed Covenants, Restrictions and Easement in the form  
    attached hereto as Exhibit D, Restrictive Covenant for recording with  
    the deed to the Property.  
  
    (viii)  
  
    12. CLOSING COSTS AND PRORATIONS  
  
    13.  
  
    At the Closing, closing costs shall be paid and prorations made as  
    follows:  
  
    A.  Closing Costs  
  
  
  
    Buyer and Seller shall each pay their own attorneys' fees incurred in  
    connection with negotiating and consummating the transactions  
    contemplated herein.  Buyer shall pay all costs of closing the  
    transaction including Escrow fees, fees for Extended ALTA Title  
    Insurance Policy, and recording fees.  
  
    B.  Prorations  
  
  
  
    All prorations shall be made as of 12:01 a.m. on the Closing Date so  
    that for purposes of prorations, Buyer shall be deemed in ownership of  
    the Real Property throughout such day.  Unless otherwise specified  
    herein, all Taxes shall be prorated on an accrual basis.  As used  
    herein, "Taxes" include all real property taxes and similar charges of  
    any kind.  All delinquent Taxes (including penalties thereon) shall be  
    paid at Closing out of funds due Seller.  Any non-delinquent Taxes  
    shall be prorated based on the current tax bill and Buyer shall pay or  
    credit the Purchase Price the fraction thereof that represents the  
    number of days remaining in the applicable fiscal year (including the  
    Closing Date) divided by the number of days in such fiscal year; if  
    such tax bill has not yet been received by Seller, the proration shall  
    be based on one hundred percent (100%) of the previous year's tax  
    bill, and such adjustment shall be final.  All assessments levied  
    against the Real Property for improvements that are payable in  
    installments shall be prorated as to the current installment, and  
    Buyer shall acquire the Real Property subject to the lien of future  
    installments as they become due.  Seller shall pay any delinquent  
    assessment together with any penalties and interest thereon on or  
    before the Closing Date.  
  
    14. SELLER'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES  
  
    15.  
  
    Seller hereby makes the following representations and warranties to  
    Buyer as of the Effective Date:  
  
    A.  Due Authorization  
  
  
  
    Seller has full power to execute, deliver and carry out the terms and  
    provisions of this Agreement and has taken all necessary action to  
    authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement.  
    The individual executing this Agreement on behalf of Seller has the  
    authority to bind Seller to the terms and conditions of this  
    Agreement.  
  
  
  
    B.  Enforceability  
  
  
  
    This Agreement and all documents required hereby to be executed by  
    Seller, when so executed, shall be legal, valid, and binding  
    obligations of Seller enforceable against Seller in accordance with  
    their respective terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency,  
    reorganization, moratorium, and other similar laws affecting rights of  
    creditors generally and, as to enforceability, the general principles  
    of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding  
    in equity or at law).  
  
    16.    BUYER'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES  
  
    17.  
  
    Buyer hereby makes the following representations and warranties to  
    Seller as of the Effective Date and as of the Closing Date:  
  
    A.  Due Authorization  
  
  
  
    Buyer has full power to execute, deliver and carry out the terms and  
    provisions of this Agreement and has taken all necessary action to  
    authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement.  
    The individual executing this Agreement on behalf of Buyer has the  
    authority to bind Buyer to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  
  
    B.  Enforceability  
  
  
  
    This Agreement and all documents required hereby to be executed by  
    Buyer, when so executed, shall be legal, valid, and binding  
    obligations of Buyer, enforceable against Buyer in accordance with  
    their respective terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency,  
    reorganization, moratorium, and other similar laws affecting the  
    rights of creditors generally and, as to enforceability, to general  
    principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a  
    proceeding in equity or at law).  
  
    C.  Environmental Matters  
  
  
  
    Buyer acknowledges that it is purchasing the Real Property based on  
    its own investigation and inquiry and has not received and is not  
    relying on any representation or warranty of Seller as to the physical  
    condition of the Real Property and is agreeing to accept and purchase  
    the Real Property in such condition "as is, with all faults."  This  
    Section shall not be construed as releasing Seller from any liability  
    it would otherwise have under any applicable environmental laws and  
    Buyer does not assume such liability.  
  
    18. ACTIONS AFTER THE EFFECTIVE DATE  
  
    19.  
  
    The parties covenant to do the following from the Effective Date  
    through the Closing Date.  
  
    A.  Title  
  
  
  
    Seller shall not make or permit any change to the Property or to the  
    condition of title to the Real Property without Buyer's prior written  
    consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.  
  
    B.  Maintenance and Operation of Property  
  
  
  
    Seller shall maintain and operate the Property in substantially its  
    current condition.  Seller shall not make any material alterations to  
    or upon the Real Property without Buyer's prior written consent, which  
    consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.  
  
    C.  Representations and Warranties  
  
  
  
    Each party shall use its best efforts to prevent any act or omission  
    that would render any of its representations and warranties herein  
    untrue or misleading on or prior to the Closing Date, and shall  
    immediately notify the other party in writing if any such act or  
    omission occurs.  
  
    D.  Removal of Personal Property  
  
  
  
    Seller shall retain ownership of and have the obligation to remove all  
    readily moveable Personal Property from the Real Property by the  
    Closing Date.  Any Personal Property not removed by the Closing Date  
    shall be deemed abandoned and Buyer may, at its option and at Seller's  
    expense, dispose of all items that are required to be removed by  
    Seller without liability to Seller.  Seller shall ensure that any such  
    removal does not create a hazard to members of the public exercising  
    ordinary care for their own safety.  
  
    E.  Insurance  
  
  
  
    Seller shall secure and maintain in full force and effect at no  
    expense to Buyer and until Closing has occurred, fire and extended  
    coverage, vandalism and malicious mischief, and special extended  
    coverage insurance by one or more responsible insurance companies,  
    providing coverage in amounts acceptable to Seller in its sole  
    discretion.  
  
    20. DAMAGE TO PROPERTY/TAKINGS  
  
    21.  
  
    If the Real Property or any substantial, material part thereof (i) is  
    materially damaged by casualty, or (ii) is taken or is the subject of  
    a notice of taking by eminent domain prior to the Closing Date, Seller  
    shall promptly notify Buyer, whereupon Buyer may give Seller written  
    notice that it elects to (a) terminate this Agreement, in which event  
    the parties shall have no further obligations hereunder (except for  
    Buyer's indemnification obligations); or (b) proceed to Closing, in  
    which event Seller shall assign to Buyer all insurance proceeds  
    attributable to the Real Property arising from the casualty together  
    with a credit against the Purchase Price equal to the deductible  
    amount and/or coinsurance amount under the applicable insurance  
    policy, or pay over and assign to Buyer all awards recovered or  
    recoverable on account of such taking, as the case may be.  If Buyer  
    elects to proceed under this Section 12, Seller shall not compromise,  
    settle, or adjust any claims to such proceeds, or awards without  
    Buyer's prior written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably  
    withheld.  
  
    22. SURVIVAL OF TERMS  
  
    23.  
  
    All representations, warranties and indemnification commitments by the  
    respective parties contained herein are intended to and shall remain  
    true and correct as of the Closing, shall be deemed to be material,  
    and shall not be merged into the Deed, and shall survive the delivery  
    of the Deed and transfer of title.  
  
    24. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS  
  
    25.  
  
    The terms, covenants and conditions herein contained shall be binding  
    upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the  
    parties hereto.  Buyer may not assign Buyer's rights and obligations  
    hereunder.  
  
    26. DEFAULTS & REMEDIES  
  
    27.  
  
    If Seller wrongfully fails to convey the Real Property to Buyer, Buyer  
    shall have all remedies available to it at law or in equity,  
    including, without limitation, the right to seek specific performance.  
  
    28. ATTORNEYS' FEES  
  
    29.  
  
    If there is any dispute between the parties regarding their rights and  
    obligations under this Agreement (whether or not litigation is  
    involved), each party shall be responsible for its own attorneys' fees  
    and court costs.  
  
    30. NOTICES  
  
    31.  
  
    All notices required or permitted to be given pursuant to the terms  
    hereof shall be in writing and shall be delivered either by hand  
    delivery; by nationally recognized private overnight delivery service;  
    by deposit in the United States mail, registered or certified mail,  
    postage prepaid; or by electronic facsimile transfer, but if delivered  
    by electronic facsimile transfer, a hard copy of such notice shall  
    also be delivered on or before the next Day by hand delivery or by  
    such overnight delivery service.  All notices shall be addressed to  
    Seller at Seller's Address (or in the case of an electronic facsimile  
    transfer, to Seller's facsimile copier number), and to Buyer at  
    Buyer's Address (or in the case of an electronic facsimile transfer,  
    to Buyer's facsimile copier number).  The addresses (and electronic  
    facsimile transfer numbers) set forth in Section 1 may be changed by  
    written notice to the other party as provided herein.  Notices shall  
    be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of actual receipt, as  
    evidenced by the deliverer's affidavit, the recipient's acknowledgment  
    of receipt, or the overnight delivery service's receipt; and in the  
    event of attempted delivery during normal business hours at the proper  
    address by an agent of a party or by the overnight delivery service or  
    the U.S. Postal Service but refused acceptance, shall be deemed to  
    have been given upon attempted delivery, as evidenced by an affidavit  
    of inability to deliver stating the time, date, place and manner in  
    which such delivery was attempted and the manner in which such  
    delivery was refused.  
  
    32. CONSTRUCTION OF DOCUMENT  
  
    33.  
  
    In construing this document, all headings and titles are for the  
    convenience of the parties only and shall not be considered a part of  
    this Agreement.  Whenever required by the context, the singular shall  
    include the plural and the masculine shall include the feminine and  
    vice versa.  This Agreement shall not be construed as if prepared by  
    one of the parties, but rather according to its fair meaning as a  
    whole, as if both parties had prepared it.  All exhibits attached  
    hereto are incorporated in this Agreement by reference thereto.  
  
    34. TIME  
  
    35.  
  
    Time is of the essence of every provision herein contained.  
  
    36. FORCE MAJEURE  
  
    37.  
  
    If either party is unable to perform one or more of its obligations  
    under this Agreement, except for an obligation to pay any funds due  
    hereunder, or to enjoy any of its benefits because of natural disaster  
    or actions or decrees of governmental bodies (hereinafter referred to  
    as a "Force Majeure Event" or "Event"), the party who has been so  
    affected immediately shall give notice to the other party and shall do  
    everything possible to resume performance.  Upon receipt of such  
    notice, the affected party shall be excused from such performance as  
    is affected by the Force Majeure Event for the period of such Event.  
    If the period of non-performance exceeds fifteen (15) days from the  
    receipt of notice of the Force Majeure Event, the party whose ability  
    to perform has not been so affected may terminate this Agreement by  
    giving written notice.  If such Event shall affect the Closing Date,  
    the Closing Date shall automatically be extended for a period equal to  
    the duration of such Event.  
  
    38. APPLICABLE LAW  
  
    39.  
  
    The laws of the State of Washington shall govern this Agreement.  
  
    40. NO ORAL MODIFICATION OR WAIVER  
  
    41.  
  
    This Agreement may not be changed or amended orally, but only by an  
    agreement in writing.  No waiver shall be effective hereunder unless  
    given in writing, and waiver shall not be inferred from any conduct of  
    either party.  
  
    42. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS  
  
    43.  
  
    Seller and Buyer make no agreement herein with respect to, and retain  
    all of their respective rights and responsibilities under all  
    applicable statutes and other law with respect to, the allocation of  
    liability arising from or relating to Hazardous Materials on, in,  
    under, or migrating, or having migrated, onto or off of the Real  
    Property.  Either party hereto that seeks an allocation of any such  
    liability against the other party shall make a reasonable attempt to  
    join in any lawsuit any past or present tenant(s) of Buyer and Seller  
    known to the party bringing the lawsuit to be a potentially  
    responsible party under applicable law in addition to bringing a  
    lawsuit against the other party.  
  
    44.  COUNTERPARTS  
  
    45.  
  
    This Agreement may be executed in counterparts with each counterpart  
    so executed deemed an original hereof.  
  
    46.  ENTIRE AGREEMENT  
  
    47.  
  
    This Agreement contains all of the covenants, conditions and  
    agreements between the parties and shall supersede all prior  
    correspondence, agreements and understandings, both verbal and  
    written, between the parties or their respective representatives.  The  
    parties intend that this Agreement constitutes the complete and  
    exclusive statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence may be  
    introduced in any proceeding involving this Agreement.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has executed one or  
    more copies of this Agreement by having its authorized representative  
    affix his or her signature in the appropriate space below as of the  
    date set forth under said signature.  
  
    SELLER:            BUYER:  
  
    Housing Authority of the City of Seattle    City of Seattle  
  
    Printed Name:           Printed Name:   
  
    Date:              Date:              
  
    EXHIBIT A  
  
    LEGAL DESCRIPTION  
  
  
  
      All that real property described as Parcel B and shown on that Short  
    Subdivision Number 2207828, Recorder's Certificate ____, recorded  
    ____day of _____, 2003 at _______, in Book ____ of Surveys, at pages  
    _____.  
  
    EXHIBIT B  
  
    FORM OF LIMITED WARRANTY DEED  
  
  
  
    This cover page is attached for recording purposes and is not a part  
    of the instrument.  
  
    Document Title: LIMITED WARRANTY DEED  
  
    Reference number of related documents:  NOT APPLICABLE  
  
    Grantor:  HOUSING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    Grantee:  THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    Legal Description:  
  
    All that real property described as Parcel B and shown on that Short  
    Subdivision Number 2207828, Recorder's Certificate ____, recorded  
    ____day of _____, 2003 at _______, in Book ____ of Surveys, at pages  
    _____.  
  
  
  
    LIMITED WARRANTY DEED  
  
    Housing Authority of the City of Seattle, a Washington public body,  
    corporate ("Grantor"), for and in consideration of One and 00/100  
    Dollar ($1.00) to it paid by THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal  
    corporation ("Grantee"), the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged,  
    does hereby grant and convey, with limited warranty covenants, to the  
    Grantee, the premises described in Exhibit A attached hereto and made  
    a part hereof ("Property").  
  
    Together with all of the privileges and appurtenances to the same  
    belonging, to have and to hold the same to Grantee, its successors and  
    assigns forever.  Grantor, for itself and for its successors, hereby  
    warrants with limited warranty covenants, with the Grantee, its  
    successors and assigns forever, that it is lawfully seized of the  
    Property in fee simple and that it will defend the same from and  
    against the claims and demands of only Grantor and all persons  
    claiming by, through, or under Grantor, but not against the claims of  
    any others whomsoever, and that this conveyance of the Property is  
    made subject to (a) all liens and encumbrances created or assumed by  
    Grantee; (b) zoning ordinances; (c) legal highways; (d) covenants,  
    restrictions, conditions and other matters currently of record; (e)  
    real estate taxes and assessments not yet due and payable; and (f) all  
    matters which may be disclosed by an accurate survey of the Property.  
  
    In Witness Whereof, Grantor has caused its name to be hereunto  
    subscribed this ___ day of _________, 2003, by its duly authorized  
    official.  
  
    Signed and acknowledged    HOUSING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    in the presence of:      By:  
  
                            
  
    (Witness Signature)      Printed Name:  
  
              Its:  
  
    (Print Name)  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON    )  
  
              )ss.  
  
    COUNTY OF ______________  )  
  
      On this _____ day of _________________, 2003, before me personally  
    appeared ___________________________________________________________,  
    to me known to be the ______________________ of HOUSING AUTHORITY OF  
    THE CITY OF SEATTLE that executed the within and foregoing instrument,  
    and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and  
    deed of said association, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned,  
    and on oath stated that (s)he was authorized to execute said  
    instrument on behalf of said association.  
  
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my  
    official seal the day and year first above written.  
  
              Signature:_________________________________  
  
              Name:(print)_______________________________  
  
              NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State  
  
              of __________, residing at ____________________  
  
              My appointment expires:______________________  
  
    EXHIBIT C  
  
    INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT  
  
    between  
  
    The Seattle Housing Authority and  
  
    The City of Seattle  
  
    Concerning  
  
    Development of Yesler Community Center  
  
    The intent of this Interagency Agreement ("Agreement") is to establish  
    terms between the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle, a public  
    body corporate and politic ("SHA"), and The City of Seattle ("City"),  
    by and through its Seattle Parks and Recreation Department ("Parks"),  
    for the design of a new Yesler Community Center ("Center"), on  
    property that is part of a public housing community owned by SHA and  
    known as Yesler Terrace.  
  
    This Agreement amends and replaces the previous Interagency Agreement  
    executed by Parks and SHA on or about July 23, 2002.  
  
    RECITALS  
  
    1.  In November of 1999, the citizens of the City of Seattle passed  
    Proposition 1 ("Levy"), thereby providing funding for the development  
    and expansion of eleven community centers.  SHA agreed to contribute  
    real property for a new community center in the Yesler Terrace area so  
    that the Yesler Terrace community could be included among the  
    neighborhoods to be served by the Levy.  The Levy provides for  
    $6,636,000 in funding for the Center.  This funding is intended to  
    include all administrative, design and construction costs of the  
    Center and associated off-street parking.  
  
    2.  In the spring of 2001, SHA and Parks conducted a study, involving  
    residents of Yesler Terrace and nearby neighborhoods, to select the  
    preferred location for the Center.  The site selected is owned by SHA  
    and is in the Yesler Terrace neighborhood and is along the south side  
    of Yesler Way between 10th Avenue South and Broadway.  Development of  
    the site will require the demolition of 21 existing housing units, the  
    Yesler Terrace Management Office and a laundry facility.  The fair  
    market value of the site has been determined by an independent  
    appraisal to be One Million Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars  
    ($1,800,000).  
  
    3.  In September of 2001, the Parks Board of Commissioners endorsed  
    this preferred site and recommended that all housing units demolished  
    be replaced. The SHA Board of Commissioners initially directed that  
    housing units be replaced on site. However, in July of 2002, Parks and  
    SHA, in conjunction with the community, determined that a mixed-use  
    development of housing with the Center was simply not feasible.  
    Following this determination, Parks in consultation with the community  
    and SHA proceeded to design a stand-alone community center of  
    approximately 20,000 square feet, and SHA proceeded separately with a  
    plan to replace the to be demolished housing units.  SHA has also  
    determined that the management office and laundry facility will not be  
    replaced as part of this project.  
  
    4.  In December of 2002, the SHA Board of Commissioners, recognizing  
    the need for a new community center that would provide significant  
    benefits to the residents of Yesler Terrace and the surrounding  
    neighborhoods, passed Resolution 4681. That resolution authorized SHA  
    to sell its preferred site property to the City at less than fair  
    market value for development as a community center.  
  
    NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants contained herein and  
    for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of  
    which are hereby acknowledged, the City and SHA agree as follows:  
  
    SECTION 1: TERM OF AGREEMENT AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION  
  
  
  
    The term of this Agreement shall begin when fully executed by all  
    parties and shall end on December 31, 2004 or the date of completion  
    of the Yesler Community Center, whichever is later, unless terminated  
    earlier pursuant to the provisions hereof.  
  
    This Project will consist of the development, design and construction  
    of an approximately 20,000 square-foot community center and associated  
    off-street parking ("Center").  
  
    SECTION 2: PROJECT DESIGN REVIEW AND APPROVAL  
  
    A. SHA and Parks acknowledge that the site planning, programming,  
    schematic and design development phases have been completed and cannot  
    be changed without incurring a significant and unreasonable Project  
    delay, as well as creating the need for additional Project funding  
    from SHA.  During the sequential phases of design development,  
    however, Parks shall provide SHA with detailed plans ("Design  
    Documents") related to the design of the Center.  SHA will have the  
    opportunity to comment on the Design Documents as hereinafter set  
    forth, and Parks will exercise its best reasonable efforts to take  
    such comments into account in the final Design Documents.  SHA will  
    provide any comments to the Design Documents (including detailed  
    explanations of any requested design changes) within ten (10) working  
    days of the receipt of the Design Documents from Parks.  
  
    B.  
  
    C. In the event SHA proposes a change or amendment to the Design  
    Documents with respect to the design of the Community Center, such  
    proposed change or amendment, in addition to being subject to the  
    approval of Parks, must be consistent with the Yesler Community Center  
    Final Design Program, Community Center Design Standards, and any other  
    adopted City and Parks standards related to community centers.  
  
    D.  
  
    SECTION 3: INDEMNIFICATION  
  
  
  
    A.  Each party hereto shall hold harmless, indemnify and defend the  
    other party and its officers, agents and employees from and against  
    any and all claims, suits, actions, losses, costs, penalties and  
    damages of whatsoever kind or nature to the extent they arise out of,  
    in connection with, or incident to the indemnifying party's  
    intentional acts, negligence or breach of any covenant or warranty  
    under this Agreement ("Claims").  Upon timely notice of the  
    commencement of any claim, the indemnifying party shall assume the  
    defense of the indemnified party and its officers, agents  and  
    employees ; shall pay all defense expenses, including reasonable  
    attorneys' fees, expert fees and costs, incurred in connection with  
    the Claim; shall reimburse all costs reasonably incurred by the  
    indemnified party in defending itself and its officers, agents and  
    employees against the Claim prior to the indemnifying party's  
    acceptance of defense responsibility with respect to such Claim; and  
    shall satisfy any judgment rendered in connection therewith or pay any  
    sum required to settle such Claim.  The parties agree that their  
    respective obligations under this subsection extend to Claims made  
    against either party by the other party's officers, agents and  
    employees.  For this purpose, the parties, by mutual negotiation,  
    hereby waive, as respects the other party only, any immunity that  
    would otherwise be available against such Claims under the industrial  
    insurance provisions of Title 51 RCW.  
  
    B.  In the event the parties are jointly liable to any claimant or  
    litigant, each party shall bear responsibility for its own defense,  
    including the payment of all attorneys' fees and costs associated  
    therewith, and shall satisfy any judgment or settlement to the extent  
    allocated to such party's fault.  
  
    C.  The provisions of this Section 3 shall survive the expiration or  
    termination of this Agreement.  
  
    SECTION 4:   DISPUTES  
  
  
  
    A.  Any dispute or misunderstanding that may arise under this  
    Agreement shall first be resolved through amicable negotiations, if  
    possible, between SHA's Project Manager and Parks' Project Manager, or  
    if necessary, shall be referred to the Superintendent of the Parks  
    Department and the Executive Director of SHA.  If such officials are  
    unable to amicably resolve the dispute within a reasonable period of  
    time, the parties may pursue other legal means to resolve such  
    disputes, including but not limited to dispute resolution processes.  
  
    SECTION 5: TERMINATION  
  
  
  
    A.  For Cause:  Either party may terminate this Agreement if  
    the other party is in material breach of any of the terms of this  
    Agreement, and such breach has not been corrected to the non-breaching  
    party's reasonable satisfaction in a reasonable time after notice of  
    the breach has been communicated to the party allegedly in breach;  
    provided, however, that the provisions of Section 7(D) hereof have  
    been met.  
  
    B.  For Reasons Beyond Control of Parties:  Either party may  
    terminate this Agreement without recourse by the other where  
    performance is rendered impossible or impracticable for reasons beyond  
    such party's reasonable control such as but not limited to an act of  
    nature; war or warlike operation; civil commotion; riot; labor dispute  
    including strike, walkout, or lockout; sabotage, or superior  
    governmental regulation or control.  
  
    SECTION 6: CONFIDENTIALITY  
  
    The parties agree that they will not permit the duplication or  
    disclosure of any information designated in advance by the other party  
    as confidential and proprietary information to any person (other than  
    its own employee, agent, or representative who must have such  
    information for the performance of its obligations hereunder) unless  
    such duplication, use or disclosure is specifically authorized in  
    writing by the other party or is required by law, in which case the  
    information will be treated as confidential for all other purposes.  
    The term "confidential and proprietary information" does not include  
    ideas, concepts, know-how or techniques related to information that,  
    at the time of its disclosure, is in the public domain unless the  
    entry of that information into the public domain is a result of any  
    breach of this Agreement.  Likewise, the term "confidential and  
    proprietary information" does not apply to information that is  
    independently developed, already possessed without obligation of  
    confidentiality, or rightfully obtained from a third party with an  
    obligation of confidentiality.  
  
    SECTION 7:  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS  
  
  
  
    A.  Amendments:  No modification of this Agreement shall be  
    effective unless in writing and signed by an authorized representative  
    of each of the parties hereto.  
  
    B.  Binding Agreement:  This Agreement shall not be binding  
    until signed by both parties.  The provisions, covenants and  
    conditions in this Agreement shall bind the parties and their legal  
    representatives, successors, and assigns.  
  
    C.  Applicable Law/Venue:  This Agreement shall be construed and  
    interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington.  
    The venue of any action brought hereunder shall be in the Superior  
    Court for King County, Washington.  
  
    D.  Remedies/Enforceability:  In the event either party violates  
    this Agreement, (hereafter the "breaching party"), the non-breaching  
    party shall notify the breaching party in writing of the breach.  The  
    breaching party shall have sixty (60) days from the date of such  
    notice to cure such breach.  However, if the breach is of such a  
  
    nature that it may not practicably be cured within sixty (60) days,  
    the non-breaching party shall not be entitled to exercise its remedies  
    so long as the breaching party commences cure of such breach with the  
    sixty-day period and diligently pursues the cure to completion within  
    a reasonable time as approved by the non-breaching party.  If the  
    breaching party does not cure or commence to cure pursuant to the  
    foregoing, the non-breaching party, may in its discretion, pursue any  
    and all remedies available at law or in equity.  The parties agree  
    that such remedies shall include termination of this Agreement Rights  
    under this Agreement are cumulative and nonexclusive of any other  
    remedy at law or in equity.  
  
    E.  Captions:  The titles of sections are for convenience only  
    and do not define or limit the contents.  
  
    F.  Severability:  If any term or provision of this Agreement is  
    determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or  
    unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected  
    thereby, and each term and provision of this Agreement shall be valid  
    and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.  
  
    G.  Waiver:  No covenant, term or condition or the breach  
    thereof shall be deemed waived, except by written consent of the party  
    against whom the waiver is claimed, and any waiver of the breach of  
    any covenant, term or condition shall not be deemed to be a waiver of  
    any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other covenant,  
    term or condition.  
  
    H.  Entire Agreement:  This document, along with any exhibits  
    and attachments, constitutes the entire agreement between the parties  
    with respect to the design portion of this project.  No verbal  
    agreement or conversation between any officer, agent, associate or  
    employee of the City and SHA and any officer, agency, employee or  
    associate of the City and SHA prior to the execution of this Agreement  
    shall affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in  
    this Agreement.  
  
    I.  Negotiated Agreement:  The parties acknowledge that this is  
    a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have  
    this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that  
    the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed  
    against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.  
  
    J.  Access/Inspection:  Parks and its consultants shall have the  
    right to access SHA property at all reasonable times for the purpose  
    of designing the Center, subject to the rights of tenants occupying  
    Yesler Terrace units and 48 hour notice.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement by  
    having, their representatives affix their signatures below.  
  
    THE CITY OF SEATTLE      SEATTLE HOUSING AUTHORITY  
  
    PARKS AND RECREATION  
  
    DEPARTMENT  
  
    By: ___________________________  By:___________________________  
  
    Signature          Signature  
  
    Kenneth R. Bounds        Harry Thomas  
  
    Superintendent        Executive Director  
  
    Seattle Parks and Recreation Dept.    Seattle Housing Authority  
  
    EXHIBIT D  
  
  
  
    DECLARATION OF USE COVENANTS, RESTRICTIONS AND EASEMENT  
  
  
  
  
    GRANTOR:  City of Seattle, a Washington Municipal Corporation  
  
    GRANTEE:  Housing Authority of the City of Seattle, a Washington  
    public body corporate and politic  
  
    ABBR. LEGAL:  [   ]  
  
    Additional Legal on page ___-  
  
    TAX PARCEL NUMBER:  [    ]  
  
    RELATED DOCUMENTS: N/A  
  
  
  
  
  
    This Declaration of Use Covenants, Restrictions and Easement (the "Use  
    Covenants") is made on or as of ____________________2003, by, The City  
    of Seattle a Washington municipal corporation ( the "City") whose  
    address is: The City of Seattle Parks and Recreation Department, 100  
    Dexter Avenue North, Seattle, Washington 98109, Attention:  
    Superintendent,  for the benefit of the Housing Authority of the City  
    of Seattle, a public body corporate and politic under the laws of the  
    state of Washington ("Housing Authority") pursuant to that certain  
    Interagency Agreement entered into by City and HOUSING AUTHORITY dated  
    ____________(the "Interagency Agreement") and that certain Purchase  
    and Sale Agreement entered into by City and the Housing Authority  
    (dated ___________ the "Purchase and Sale Agreement").  
  
      RECITALS  
  
      1.  WHEREAS, City is acquiring from the Housing Authority certain  
    real property known as the New Community Center site, legally  
    described on Exhibit A attached hereto (the "Property"); and  
  
    2.  WHEREAS, the approval of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban  
    development ("HUD") is required for the Property to be sold; and  
  
    3.  WHEREAS, City proposes to construct a Community Center of  
    approximately  
  
    20,000 s.f. on the Property (the "Community Center") for use by the  
    public with the expenditure of $6,636,000 in levy financing allocated  
    for such purposes; and  
  
    4.  WHEREAS, the Housing Authority is willing to sell the Property to  
    Purchaser for a price below its unencumbered fair market value subject  
    to certain covenants and restrictions as set forth below, and HUD is  
    willing to approve such sale, subject to certain covenants and  
    restrictions encumbering the Property as set forth below in this  
    Declaration of Use Covenants, Restrictions and Easement.  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the  
    conveyance of the Property by Housing Authority to City and for such  
    other valuable consideration receipt of which is hereby acknowledged,  
    the parties hereto agree as follows:  
  
    USE COVENANTS  
  
    1.  Covenants and Restrictions.  City hereby irrevocably grants  
    and conveys to HOUSING AUTHORITY and subjects the Property to the  
    affirmative and negative conditions, covenants and restrictions set  
    forth which are covenants running with the land, binding on the City,  
    its successors and assigns and binds such successors in title  
    benefiting the Housing Authority for fifty (50) year term as set forth  
    in Section 2 below, subject to Section 3 below.  
  
    2.  Transfers of Interest in the Property.  City hereby declares  
    its express intent that, except as provided in Section 4, the Use  
    Covenants set forth in Section 5 shall apply to any estate or interest  
    in the Property now held or hereafter acquired by the City and shall  
    pass to and be binding upon City's successors in title including any  
    purchaser, grantee, owner or lessee of any portion of the Property and  
    any other person or entity having any right, title or interest therein  
    and upon the respective heirs, executors, administrators, devisees,  
    successors and assigns of any purchaser, grantee, owner or lessee of  
    any portion of the Property and any other person or entity having any  
    right title or interest therein.  City agrees not to transfer the  
    Property or any portion thereof or interest therein other than utility  
    easements required for the operation of the property as a Community  
    Center, and short-term rentals to any successor unless successor  
    agrees in writing to be bound by the provisions of these Use  
    Covenants.  
  
    City agrees to provide to Housing Authority a copy of any agreement  
    except conveyance agreements for the establishment of utility services  
    necessary to the operation of the property as a Community Center prior  
    to the transfer.  The execution and delivery of such agreement to  
    Housing Authority shall be a condition precedent to the effectiveness  
    of any transfer of any such interest in the Property to such  
    successor, but the applicable covenants herein shall be binding on any  
    such transferee to the extent that they do not interfere with the  
    legal rights of utility services, regardless of whether such written  
    agreement is obtained.  
  
    3.  Minimum Community Center Use.  City agrees to provide a  
    minimum of twenty thousand square feet (20,000 s.f.) of space in the  
    Community Center on the Property for public recreational uses.  The  
    Community Center will provide space for a variety of activities, such  
    as but not limited to a regulation-size sports court, technology  
    laboratory, after-school care for elementary school-age children, teen  
    activities, classes for adults and community rooms open to the public  
    for meetings and social events.  Reprogramming major elements of the  
    space within the Community Center during the term of these Covenants  
    shall require the prior written approval of the Housing Authority.  
  
    4.  Availability for Use.  City agrees that the Community Center  
    shall be available for public use and open on a schedule that is  
    consistent with, and no less than, similarly sized Community Centers  
    under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation.  
  
    5.  Maintenance and Repair.  For fifty (50) years after the date  
    specified in Section 2, City shall maintain the exterior and interior  
    of the Community Center in good condition and repair in a manner that  
    preserves and enhances the adjacent property owned by the Housing  
    Authority.  In the event of any fire or other casualty and unless the  
    Use Covenants are terminated in accordance with 6 below, City shall  
    restore the Community Center as nearly as possible to its prior  
    condition all in accordance with City rules, regulations and building  
    codes.  City shall not remove or demolish any portion of the Community  
    Center , excepting those building elements, such as , but not limited  
    to, roofs, Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning elements,  
    environmentally contaminated structures, dry rot, broken glass, roof  
    top appurtenances, hand rails, or any building modification required  
    by legal authority with jurisdiction to require same, whose  
    maintenance requires their removal or demolition in order to maintain  
    the property in good operating condition, without prior written  
    consent of Housing Authority.  
  
    6.  Term of Use Covenants.  The term of these Use Covenants is  
    fifty (50) years from the date of the sale of the Property to City.  
    The term shall be continuous.  Temporary closure for maintenance or  
    rehabilitation shall not automatically extend the term of the Use  
    Covenants unless such closure exceeds ninety (90) days.  If such  
    closure exceeds ninety days, then the Term of the Use Covenants shall  
    be automatically extended by the term of such closure period or  
    periods unless otherwise agreed by separate agreement between the  
    parties hereto.  
  
    7.  Termination.  Upon conveyance of the Property to the City  
    these Use Covenants may not be terminated prior to expiration of the  
    term except for a Force Majeure (including natural disasters, acts of  
    war, or regulatory actions of governmental bodies other than the City  
    of Seattle) or by other agreement between the parties hereto which  
    make performance impracticable.  
  
    8.  Easement.  City hereby grants to Housing Authority an  
    easement in gross to enter upon the Property with 48 hours notice to  
    the City, during normal business hours in order to inspect the  
    Community Center and to exercise any rights or remedies that the  
    Housing Authority may have hereunder.  The easement shall expire upon  
    the end of the term of the Use Covenants.  
  
    9.  Remedies/Enforceability.  In the event of a breach of this  
    Declaration by City or any successor in interest, the Housing  
    Authority shall be entitled to pursue any available legal remedy,  
    including specific performance.  
  
    10.  No Removal of Improvements.  City shall not remove or  
    demolish any of the improvements installed as part of the Community  
    Center without prior written consent of the Housing Authority.  
  
    11.  Attorney's Fees.  In any litigation brought to enforce the  
    terms or the Use Covenants, the prevailing party shall be entitled to  
    an award of reasonable attorneys' fees and costs.  
  
    12.  Release and Indemnity.  City and Housing Authority hereby  
    release each other and their employees, and agree to hold each other  
    harmless, from and against all liability, loss, damage, and claims  
    that may arise in connection with the Use Covenants, except that  
    neither party shall be obligated to indemnify the other or its agents  
    or employees for any damages caused by or resulting from the sole  
    negligence of either party or caused by or resulting from the  
    concurrent negligence of City or the Housing Authority or their agents  
    or employees.  
  
    13.  Jurisdiction and Venue/Recordation.  City irrevocably  
    agrees and consents to the jurisdiction of the courts of King County,  
    Washington or such other courts that may have jurisdiction in King  
    County and to venue in such courts for purposes of any action or  
    proceeding arising out of or relating to these Use Covenants. The City  
    will cause these Use Covenants to be duly recorded in the Office of  
    the King County Recorder within ten business days after signature by  
    the parties.  
  
    14.  Severability. If any provision of these Use Covenants are  
    or is found invalid, such finding shall not affect the validity of the  
    Use Covenants as a whole, or any other provisions hereof.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties, by their respective duly authorized  
    officers, have caused this Declaration of Covenants and Restrictions  
    to be executed in their respective names for proper recording in the  
    public records the day and year first above written.  
  
    EXECUTED as of the date first written above.  
  
    THE CITY OF SEATTLE      SEATTLE HOUSING AUTHORITY  
  
    PARKS AND RECREATION  
  
    DEPARTMENT  
  
    By: ___________________________  By:___________________________  
  
    Signature          Signature  
  
    Kenneth R. Bounds        Harry Thomas  
  
    Superintendent        Executive Director  
  
    Seattle Parks and Recreation Dept.  Seattle Housing Authority  
  
      - 4 -  
  
      - 11 -  
