* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114540**   
**Ordinance Number: 121173**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities, authorizing its Director, or his designee, to enter into non- exclusive, revocable Master Sewer License Agreements which allow private corporations to construct, install, maintain, replace and remove fiber optic networks and related equipment within specified areas of the storm drains and combined and sanitary sewer systems (collectively the "Sewer System") operated by and located within The City of Seattle.  
  
**Status:** Passed as Amended   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 9, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 12, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 21, 2003   
**Committee:** Water and Health   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER   
  
**Index Terms:** TELECOMMUNICATIONS, COMMUNICATION-FACILITIES, STORM-SEWERS, SANITARY-SEWERS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114540.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114540  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities, authorizing its  
    Director, or his designee, to enter into non- exclusive, revocable  
    Master Sewer License Agreements which allow private corporations to  
    construct, install, maintain, replace and remove fiber optic networks  
    and related equipment within specified areas of the storm drains and  
    combined and sanitary sewer systems (collectively the "Sewer System")  
    operated by and located within The City of Seattle.  
  
    WHEREAS, The City of Seattle ("City") desires to find new and  
    innovative ways to provide fiber optic access to its citizens, in both  
    commercial and residential uses, in order to attract new business and  
    retain existing business, attract and expand a highly skilled  
    workforce, and to promote general economic development through  
    technology availability and upgrades; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City desires to protect and preserve its infrastructure  
    and more efficiently use its monetary and personnel resources by  
    finding and authorizing innovative methods of deploying fiber optic  
    systems which do not involve digging and trenching in the streets and  
    other public rights of way, and which minimize the disruption of  
    traffic flow and commerce and the economic loss associated with such  
    disruption; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City desires to identify new revenue sources which can be  
    derived from its existing properties and resources in order to  
    increase the funds available to serve better its citizens; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City has received a request from CityNet, a  
    telecommunications infrastructure provider, to grant CityNet a  
    revocable license to use the City's Sewer System by designating  
    portions thereof, in conjunction with the approval of the City's  
    Seattle Public Utilities ("SPU"), for the purpose of constructing,  
    installing, maintaining, replacing, removing and licensing to third  
    parties for a fee the use of a fiber optic network and related  
    facilities and equipment; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the revocable Master Sewer License Agreement does not allow  
    the hydraulic capacity and useful life of the affected portions of the  
    Sewer System to be materially affected by any installations by the  
    Licensee; and  
  
    WHEREAS, SPU wishes to grant such a license to CityNet and other such  
    infrastructure providers;  NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Director of Seattle Public Utilities ("SPU"), or his  
    designee, is hereby authorized for and on behalf of The City of  
    Seattle to negotiate and execute Master Sewer License Agreement(s) for  
    the use of the City's Sewer System to construct, install, maintain,  
    replace and remove fiber optic network(s) and related equipment.  The  
    limitations of Seattle Municipal Code Section 3.18.160 (Authority to  
    negotiate and execute leases) shall not apply to the Master Sewer  
    License Agreements authorized by this section.  
  
    Section 2.  All such agreements shall be in accordance with adopted  
    City policies affecting the Sewer System.  All such agreements shall  
    be substantially in the form of the Master Sewer License Agreement,  
    attached hereto as Exhibit 1, provided, however, that SPU is  
    authorized to modify the term, the consideration paid for use of the  
    Sewer System, the assignment language, and the extent of the license  
    granted so long as such changes are consistent with this ordinance.  
  
    Section 3.  The term for any Master Sewer License Agreement may be  
    established by SPU for any initial term of up to three (3) years.  The  
    term of any such agreement, including renewal options, shall not  
    exceed twenty-one (21) years.  
  
    Section 4.  SPU shall provide a report to Council three years after  
    enactment of this ordinance.  This report shall include, but not be  
    limited to, an analysis of the Master Sewer License Agreement fee  
    structure and what constitutes fair market value, any new agreements  
    signed by SPU, whether or not the performance of the sewer system has  
    been affected, any problems implementing the agreement, how much fiber  
    has been installed in which geographic areas, any new entrants into  
    the market, new technologies that may utilize the sewer system,  
    revenue generated through leasing out space in the sewer system, and  
    any unintended costs born by SPU.  The report shall be presented to  
    the Water and Health Committee, or its successor.  
  
    Section 5.  The consideration paid for any Master Sewer License  
    Agreement shall be established by SPU and shall be based on fair  
    market value and/or other offsetting benefits, both as determined by  
    SPU.  Any applicable state and local taxes shall be charged in  
    addition to the established rate.  
  
    Section 6.  Additional fees, charges and/or other offsetting benefits  
    shall be established and charged by SPU to recover the actual costs of  
    processing any application(s), including engineering review,  
    inspection and appraisal costs, administration of the agreement,  
    providing on-site services, and/or other direct or indirect costs.  
  
    Section 7.  SPU is authorized to accept additional services, including  
    the right to have installed and to use certain fiber optic rings,  
    lines and/or connections, as set forth in the Master Sewer License  
    Agreement, in lieu of or in addition to cash rental payment; however,  
    such services must constitute substantial benefit to the City over  
    retail costs for such services under any applicable government rates  
    offered by the proposed Licensee.  
  
    Section 8.  All revenues from rent, fees and charges shall be  
    deposited in the Drainage and Wastewater Fund.  
  
    Section 9.  Any act pursuant to and prior to the effective date of  
    this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 10.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed  
    by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day  
    of __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    3/31/03  
    (Ver.6)  
    ta  
  
    List of Attachments  
      Exhibit 1: Master Sewer License Agreement  
  
    MASTER SEWER LICENSE AGREEMENT  
  
      This nonexclusive, revocable Master Sewer License Agreement  
    ("Agreement"), dated ______________________, is made by and between  
    the City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, by and  
    through its Seattle Public Utilities department (hereinafter referred  
    to as "the City"), and __________________________ (hereinafter  
    referred to as "Licensee").  
  
      In consideration of the mutual obligations and covenants herein, the  
    City and Licensee agree as follows:  
  
    SECTION 1  LICENSE  
  
    Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including all  
    attachments hereto, the City grants Licensee a nonexclusive, revocable  
    master license ("License") to construct, install, maintain, replace  
    and remove a fiber optic network and related equipment (the  
    "Facilities") within specified areas of the storm drain, sanitary and  
    combined sewer system operated and maintained by the City (the "Sewer  
    System").  The License shall be limited to the portions of the Sewer  
    System that lie within the public right-of-way or on property owned by  
    the City of Seattle, with the agreement of the Department with  
    ownership control, and Licensee shall make separate application for  
    each specific area in which it desires to locate any Facilities.  This  
    License governs all Facilities installed by Licensee and Licensee's  
    general relationship with the City.  
  
    SECTION 2  USE OF LICENSE  
  
      Licensee's use of the License shall be limited to the purposes of  
    installing, maintaining, operating and licensing to third parties for  
    a fee the use of the Facilities or portions thereof within the Sewer  
    System and any uses incidental thereto.  Licensee agrees that such use  
    of the Sewer System shall not adversely affect the operation and  
    maintenance of the Sewer System, nor any other facilities or equipment  
    within the Sewer System that exist prior to Licensee's actual  
    installation of Facilities.  
  
    SECTION 3  TERM  
  
    3.1  This Agreement shall continue in effect for a period of ________  
    years from the date of this Agreement.  Licensee shall have up to  
    ______     ______year options to extend this Agreement, each of which  
    must be exercised by providing the City not less than one hundred  
    eighty (180) days written notice of Licensee's intention to exercise  
    the option prior to the end of the then current term.  
  
    3.2  Upon termination of the term, absent a new agreement governing  
    the Facilities, Licensee shall upon the City's request promptly remove  
    all Facilities from the Sewer System and surrender all facilities,  
    subject to Section 27.  Licensee shall receive credit for unused  
    portions of the license fee if the termination is effective before the  
    end of the billing period.  
  
    SECTION 4  FEES/CONSIDERATION  
  
      4.1  Within Sixty (60) days of submitting an Application pursuant to  
    Section 5 hereof, Licensee shall pay the City the sum of _____  
    Thousand Dollars ($__,000.00) as an initial minimum non-refundable  
    license fee. ______ Thousand ($  _,000.00) of this amount shall be  
    credited against the "Gross Revenue" fees set out immediately below.  
    From and after the Effective Date, the Licensee shall pay to the City,  
    on a quarterly basis, a license fee of _____ percent (__%) of the  
    "Gross Revenues" (as defined below) received by the Licensee from  
    Licensee's operation of the Facilities in the Sewer System pursuant to  
    this Agreement.  Such payment shall be made within sixty (60) days  
    after the expiration of each quarter at the City's address specified  
    in Section 38 hereof.  For purposes of this Section, "Gross Revenues"  
    of the License shall be all gross revenues, determined in accordance  
    with generally accepted accounting principles, derived and received by  
    the Licensee from its operation of the Facilities in the Sewer System.  
    Gross Revenues include, but are not limited to, charges made by the  
    Licensee for use of the Facilities by other persons or entities. Gross  
    Revenues shall be determined without deduction for (A) any operating  
    expense; (B) any accrual including, without limitation, any accrual  
    for commissions; or (C) any other expenditure, regardless of whether  
    such expense, accrual or expenditure reflects a cash payment, but  
    revenue shall be counted only once in determining gross revenues.  
    Gross Revenues shall not include funds that Licensee is legally  
    obligated to collect as sales, similar taxes or fees of general  
    applicability.  Such license/permit fees shall be adjusted to reflect  
    any contributed goods and/or services provided to the City by the  
    Licensee, other than those specified in Sections 4.2 and 8.1.  
  
      4.2  Licensee shall also install, secure and clearly designate at no  
    cost to the City, and as an indefeasible right to use, two pairs of  
    dark fiber lines and connections from each of the proposed segments or  
    rings of Facilities into five separate buildings for each approved  
    Application.  Each building requested to be connected by the City  
    shall be located within 300 linear feet of the ring or segment  
    approved by the Application.  Alternatively, the City may request  
    either additional pairs of dark fiber lines and/or dedicated handholes  
    for accessing the dark fiber lines, provided, however, that the  
    construction value of such alternative requests are equal to or less  
    than the construction value for two pairs of dark fiber lines and the  
    connection to five separate buildings.  Within 15 days of the approval  
    of any Application, Licensee shall submit the actual construction  
    values for each separate option so that the City may adequately assess  
    its best options.  
  
    4.3  Nothing in this section reduces the obligation of the Licensee to  
    pay any otherwise required taxes and fees associated with the business  
    operations of the Licensee, including but not limited to Use taxes,  
    Sales taxes, Utility taxes, permit fees, and Business licenses.  
  
    SECTION 5  APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF PERMIT  
  
      5.1  If Licensee desires to install, at its sole cost and expense,  
    any Facilities within the Sewer System, Licensee shall submit to the  
    City a written application ("Application").  Each Application shall  
    describe in detail:  
  
      (a)  the Facilities to be installed;  
  
      (b)  the exact area of the Sewer System that will be affected;  
  
      (c)  whether any other facilities or equipment already exists within  
    the specified area of the Sewer System;  
  
      (d)  the proposed location of the Facilities within the specified  
    area of the Sewer System; and  
  
      (e)  a detailed explanation of any action that Licensee proposes to  
    modify the existing portion of Sewer System to accommodate the  
    proposed Facilities in a manner that ensures the continued operation  
    and use of the Sewer System will not be adversely affected, including  
    a certification that the proposed Facilities shall not adversely  
    affect the hydraulic capacity by more than 1.4% and the remaining  
    useful life of the pipe shall be unaffected.  
  
    5.2  Each such application shall also include working sketches or maps  
    of the affected area of the Sewer System and such other information  
    (for example, with regard to the proposed nature, and appearance) as  
    the City may request.  The City's maps of the Sewer System are  
    available for review.  
  
    5.3  Licensee shall reimburse the City for all administrative costs  
    and expenses relating to the City's review and analysis of any  
    Application.  
  
    5.4  The City recognizes that time is of the essence and will make a  
    good faith effort to process applications in an expeditious manner.  
  
    SECTION 6  REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION  
  
    6.1  Installations of Facilities made by Licensee to the Sewer System  
    under this Agreement shall not disturb or conflict with the equipment,  
    maintenance and/or operation of the City or the Sewer System.  Moving,  
    rearranging, or adjustment of the Sewer System or other City  
    facilities to provide space to accommodate Licensee's Facilities shall  
    be done only after the City provides written approval of such work to  
    Licensee and all such work shall be done by the City at the expense of  
    Licensee.  
  
    6.2  If capacity (including hydraulic capacity) is not available for  
    the Facilities of Licensee as determined by the City, no use permit  
    for the requested area of the Sewer System shall be issued.  However,  
    the City shall provide Licensee non-discriminatory access to the Sewer  
    System unless there is insufficient capacity or for reasons of health,  
    safety or reliability.  
  
    6.3  The City may require a performance bond for the estimated amount  
    of cost of any sewer improvements or modifications proposed by  
    Licensee.  If a bond is required, the bond shall not be released until  
    the entire installation is completed in a manner satisfactory to the  
    City.  
  
    6.4  Installations are to be made only as approved by the City, and  
    shall be in accordance with requirements of the State of Washington  
    Electrical Construction Code, State of Washington Administrative Code  
    (Chapter 296-44), National Electric Safety Code, City Ordinance 116633  
    and any applicable City of Seattle codes as now in force and as  
    revised or changed in the future.  
  
    6.5 All installations shall be observed and monitored by the City.  
    For each proposed installation, Licensee shall pay for the cost and  
    expense of one City employee, chosen at the City's discretion, for  
    such observation and monitoring.  
  
    6.6  (a)  Licensee shall provide and maintain for five (5) years  
    commencing when actual installation of the Facilities begins, a bond  
    in an amount sufficient to secure the removal of the Facilities and  
    all of the Facilities components from the Sewer System in the event  
    this Agreement is terminated or expires and the Licensee does not  
    remove the Facilities as required under this Agreement.  The bond  
    shall be from a surety company licensed and authorized to conduct  
    business in Washington and be rated at least A- b Best's Key Rating  
    Guide.  The amount of the bond and the surety company are subject to  
    the approval of the City, which will not be unreasonably withheld,  
    conditioned or delayed.  It is anticipated that the amount of the bond  
    shall be periodically increased as the installation of the Facilities  
    proceeds.  If the surety company files a petition in bankruptcy,  
    becomes insolvent, or its right to do business in the Washington is  
    terminated, the Licensee shall within seven (7) days thereafter  
    substitute another bond and surety company acceptable to the City.  If  
    removal of any portion or component of the Facilities requires  
    proprietary technologies, Licensee shall secure a license for the  
    surety to utilize such technology, effective in the event recourse to  
    the surety company is required for removal of the Facilities.  
  
      (b)  After the five (5) year period set forth in Section 6.6(a),  
    there shall be no requirement for a bond so long as Licensee's net  
    worth remains more than One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000.00).  
    Licensee shall provide proof of such net worth by providing audited  
    financial documents verifying Licensee's net worth, together with its  
    quarterly Gross Revenue payment to the City.  In the event a bond is  
    required under this section, the bond shall comply with the  
    requirements set forth in Section 6.6(a).  
  
    SECTION 7  MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES  
  
    7.1  Licensee shall put, keep and maintain the Facilities in good  
    condition throughout the entire period of this Agreement.  At all  
    reasonable times and following reasonable advance notice to the  
    Licensee, the Licensee shall permit examination of the Facilities by  
    any duly authorized representative of the City.  Such advance notice  
    shall be suspended at the time of emergencies (including but not  
    limited to any failure of the Sewer System) when the City has the need  
    to immediately inspect the Facilities and the Sewer System.  
  
    7.2  Licensee shall not interfere with the City's customary operations  
    on the Sewer System during the Licensee's maintenance of the  
    Facilities.  Licensee shall be responsible for obtaining all necessary  
    permits from the appropriate governmental agencies regarding traffic  
    control and right-of-way use during such maintenance operations.  
  
    7.3  The Facilities shall remain the exclusive property of Licensee  
    and Licensee shall have the right to remove all or any portion of the  
    Facilities at any time during the term of this Agreement, provided  
    that the same does not otherwise interfere with the City's normal  
    operations of the Sewer System.  The Facilities shall be deemed  
    personal property for purposes of this Agreement, regardless of  
    whether any portion thereof is deemed real or personal property under  
    applicable law, and subject to the provisions as set forth in this  
    agreement.  Upon termination of this Agreement, the City shall retain  
    the right to order Licensee to remove such facilities upon one hundred  
    twenty (120) days' written notice to Licensee.  
  
    SECTION 8  MAINTENANCE OF SEWER SYSTEM  
  
      8.1  (a)  Prior to installation of any Facilities, the Licensee will  
    clean, videotape and repair where necessary, to the City's  
    specifications, those Sewer System segments into which the Facilities  
    will be installed as specified in subparts (b) and (c) below and at  
    Licensee's sole cost and expense.  However, if after investigation of  
    the condition of that portion of the Sewer System in which Licensee is  
    considering installing its Facilities, Licensee determines, in its  
    discretion, that the condition of that portion of the Sewer System is  
    unsatisfactory to Licensee, Licensee may elect not to install its  
    Facilities in that portion of the Sewer System.  Licensee and the City  
    may agree, but are not obligated, to share the cost of repairing a  
    sewer segment into which the Facilities may be installed if each party  
    determines it is in its best interest to share such costs.  
  
    (b)  For Sewer System pipes that are less than or equal to 27 inches  
    in diameter, Licensee shall twice annually in the first two (2) years  
    after the Facilities installation jet wash (including vactor removal  
    of all sediment and the proper disposal of such sediment) and inspect  
    with closed circuit television ("CCTV") those portions of the Sewer  
    System containing the Facilities.  Each inspection shall be taped  
    using a 360-degree radial view color television camera (a.k.a. pan and  
    tilt) with a mechanical footage counter.  Written reports and tapes  
    from these CCTV inspections shall be furnished to, and become the  
    property of, the City within ten (10) days of such inspection.  The  
    tapes shall be Standard Grade, 60-minute VHS tapes taped at SP speed.  
    Each tape (by audio and visual means) and written report shall be  
    labeled with the following:  
  
       The Project name,  
       The direction of inspection (with or against flow),  
       Pipe size,  
       SPU Drainage and Wastewater USMH# and DSMH #'s.  
  
    Each CCTV inspection shall begin at the upstream Maintenance Hole  
    ("MH") structure and shall extend to centerline of the downstream MH.  
    Tapes, which are not clear or do not clearly show each joint, will be  
    rejected and those sections of pipe shall be retaped at the Licensee's  
    expense.  
  
    After the first two (2) years, the City shall specify the inspection  
    and cleaning frequency required to maintain optimal sewer functioning  
    to Licensee and Licensee agrees to comply with such specifications.  
    The inspection and cleaning specifications shall be reviewed every  
    five (5) years by the City.  
  
    (c)  For Sewer System pipes in excess of 27 inches in diameter, the  
    City shall specify the inspection and cleaning requirements and  
    frequency required to maintain optimal sewer functioning to Licensee  
    and Licensee agrees to either (1) comply with such inspection and  
    cleaning requirements and frequency; (2) reroute its Facilities to a  
    different segment of the Sewer System; or (3) eliminate the proposed  
    ring or segment, including the removal of any previously installed  
    Facilities within that segment or ring, when applicable.  If Licensee  
    chooses to install and maintain Facilities in pipes larger than 27  
    inches, Licensee shall twice annually inspect such portions of the  
    Sewer System with CCTV those portions of the Sewer System containing  
    the Facilities during the first two years of use.  Written reports and  
    tapes from these CCTV inspections shall be furnished to, and become  
    the property of, the City pursuant to the provisions set forth in  
    subsection 8.1(b).  The inspection and cleaning specifications shall  
    be reviewed every five (5) years by the City.  
  
      8.2  In the event of a failure of the Sewer System (including but  
    not limited to blockage or structural failure), the City shall restore  
    normal flow as soon as possible to prevent the back up of storm and/or  
    sewer flow into buildings or onto the roadway.  Under these  
    circumstances, the City shall not be responsible for any damage caused  
    to the Facilities, including but not limited to scenarios in which the  
    Sewer System must be jet-rodded, jet-sawed, or repaired through  
    conventional open-cut methods.  The City will endeavor to notify the  
    Licensee of any work that may impact the Facilities.  Licensee agrees  
    to immediately notify the City of any blockage or structural failure  
    as determined or recognized by Licensee during the operation of the  
    Facilities or its work/observations of the Sewer System.  In the event  
    that the City is required to perform any actions under this paragraph  
    that may affect Licensee's Facilities, the City shall endeavor to  
    isolate the failed area by cutting Licensee's Facilities on both sides  
    of the failed area.  
  
      8.3  If the Sewer System is damaged during the term of this  
    Agreement directly as a result of the installation, maintenance or  
    operation of the Facilities, the Licensee shall repair or rebuild the  
    Sewer System to substantially the same condition in which the Sewer  
    System was immediately prior to such damage, unless the damage is  
    actually caused by the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the  
    City or any of its employees, agents or representatives.  
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Licensee shall not be responsible  
    for any damage caused or contributed to by any other licensee or other  
    person or entity acquiring rights to use or occupy the Sewer System.  
  
    SECTION 9  PERFORMANCE OF WORK  
  
    9.1  The installation, maintenance, repair, relocation and removal of  
    the Facilities and other work performed in connection with this  
    Agreement (including but not limited to the maintenance specified in  
    Sections 7 & 8) are sometimes collectively referred to herein as the  
    "Work".  
  
    9.2  Licensee shall perform the Work in a workmanlike and skillful  
    manner, in accordance with standard good engineering practices; and  
    conform, when applicable, with the National Electrical Safety Code and  
    all other applicable federal, state and local laws or regulations,  
    including but not limited to Chapters 296-44 Washington Administrative  
    Code, Electrical Construction Code.  Licensee shall ensure that the  
    Work and the Facilities are in all respects (i) safe, (ii) of first-  
    class quality, (iii) free from all faults and defects in workmanship,  
    material, and design, and (iv) in conformance with the requirements of  
    this Agreement.  
  
    9.3  Except for actual installation of the Facilities, Licensee shall  
    contract with the City on a time and materials basis (including  
    overhead costs) for any Work to be performed on the Sewer System by  
    Licensee.  The City may reject such Work based on its capacity to  
    perform such Work, and in the event such Work is rejected by the City,  
    Licensee may contract with other entities to perform such Work,  
    subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  
  
    9.4  Licensee shall promptly and satisfactorily correct or replace any  
    Work or Facilities found to be defective or not in conformity with the  
    requirements of this Agreement (including, but not limited to, the  
    requirements of Section 8 and Paragraph 9.2).  If Licensee fails or  
    refuses to perform any Work required by this Agreement or to make any  
    such corrections or replacements, the City may perform such Work and  
    make such corrections and replacements at Licensee's expense.  
  
    9.5  Licensee shall, at all times, keep its work areas cleared of  
    rubbish, refuse and other debris and in a neat, clean and safe  
    condition.  Upon completion of any portion of any of the Work,  
    Licensee shall promptly remove all rubbish, refuse and other debris  
    and all of its equipment and surplus materials.  If Licensee fails to  
    do so, the City may perform such work at Licensee's expense.  
  
    9.6  In the event that any unusual levels of Prohibited Substances, as  
    defined in Section 23 herein, are either discovered or are suspected  
    in any portion of the Sewer System by Licensee, Licensee shall  
    immediately cease its operations in the vicinity of such discovery and  
    promptly notify the City.  Licensee shall cooperate with the City to  
    the fullest extent possible in providing all information, data or  
    other documentation of such discovery and shall allow the City to  
    control all subsequent access, testing, sampling or other actions  
    taken in response to the discovery of such Prohibited Substances.  
    Prior to initiating any testing and/or sampling of any substances  
    discovered in, on or around the Sewer System, Licensee covenants and  
    agrees to obtain the City's prior approval for such sampling and/or  
    testing.  In the event approval is granted for any sampling and/or  
    testing, Licensee shall provide the City prompt notice of all results  
    of any such samples and/or tests, including any supporting documents,  
    at no cost to the City and prior to the disclosure of such results to  
    any other entity.  Licensee further agrees that all the protections  
    set forth in Subsection 23.4 shall apply to the benefit of the City to  
    the extent any of its actions caused preexisting Prohibited Substances  
    to be released, migrate or change locations.  
  
    9.7  The Licensee is not authorized to contract for or on behalf of  
    the City for work on, or the furnishing of materials to the Sewer  
    System or any part thereof, and the Licensee shall pay any and all  
    subcontractors, materialmen, mechanics and laborers promptly for any  
    work performed or materials furnished at the instance of the Licensee  
    on the Sewer System.  
  
    9.8  Licensee shall become a member of the State of Washington's "one  
    number locator service" notification system, as established and more  
    fully explained in R.C.W 19.122.  This system shall be the exclusive  
    mechanism for notifying Licensee of the City, or any other third  
    party's intent to excavate around the Facilities.  
  
    9.9  Licensee shall be solely responsible for any costs incurred in  
    performing any Work, or any other items which in any way relate to its  
    rights under this Agreement and the City shall bear no responsibility  
    for any such costs.  
  
    9.10  Licensee shall ensure that all of Licensee's employees and its  
    subcontractors' employees who perform Work arising out of this  
    Agreement are paid not less than the prevailing rate of wage for the  
    same trade or occupation, as set forth by the State of Washington,  
    Department of Labor and Industries ("L&I"), including usual benefits  
    and overtime paid in the locality as defined in RCW 39.12.010(b).  
    Licensee has an absolute and mandatory duty to pay the prevailing rate  
    of wage and to ensure that subcontractors, if any, pay the prevailing  
    rate of wage.  No worker may waive full compliance or accept a lesser  
    sum.  Under-payment of prevailing wages shall be a material default of  
    this Agreement.  Should an employee prevail in suit against the  
    Licensee for wages or benefits due and establish that his or her wages  
    paid were less than the prevailing rate of wage set forth by L&I,  
    Licensee shall pay to the employee, in addition to the wages or  
    benefits due and accrued interest, a reasonable attorneys' fee and  
    expert witness' fees and court costs, as well as any other damages  
    that may be awarded.  
  
    SECTION 10.  GOVERNMENTAL APPROVAL CONTINGENCY.  
  
    10.1  It is understood and agreed that the Licensee's ability to use  
    the Sewer System for the purposes provided in this Agreement is  
    contingent upon its obtaining, before or after the execution date of  
    this Agreement, all the certificates, permits, zoning, and other  
    approvals that may be required by any federal, state, or local  
    authorities and the failure of which to obtain would have a material  
    adverse effect on the Licensee's ability to operate the Facilities in  
    the Sewer System.  The City may cooperate with Licensee, at no expense  
    to the City, in any and all such approval or exemption applications  
    and related proceedings.  Any structural analysis, radio frequency  
    studies, surveys or engineering studies conducted by the Licensee with  
    respect to its intended use of the Sewer System shall be solely at the  
    Licensee's expense.  Licensee agrees to furnish such information to  
    the City upon the City's request.  
  
    10.2  The Licensee shall be and hereby is authorized to seek, apply  
    for or otherwise request whatever zoning, land use, permitting or  
    regulatory exemptions that may now or hereafter be available to the  
    Licensee on account of the Sewer System being owned by the City;  
    provided, however, that the City makes no representation or warranty  
    herein as to the Licensee's entitlement to any such exemption.  The  
    City may cooperate with Licensee, at no expense to the City, in any  
    and all such approval or exemption applications and related  
    proceedings.  Licensee is solely responsible for the cost of obtaining  
    any zoning, land use, and permitting or regulatory exemptions.  
  
    10.3  The Licensee's use of the Sewer System is also contingent on the  
    submission to the City of documentation that the Licensee has met the  
    insurance requirements of Section 31 hereof, including a certificate  
    of insurance signed by the insurance agent or other authorized  
    representative of the company or companies named, as well as any  
    properly executed endorsements, if applicable.  The said certificate  
    of insurance shall provide that the subject insurance policy or  
    policies shall not be canceled without thirty (30) days' prior written  
    notice to the City.  Any self-insured retention must be declared to  
    and approved by the City.  
  
    SECTION 11 TELECOMMUNICATIONS LAW REQUIREMENTS  
  
    The Licensee shall be bound by the requirements and standards  
    contained in all applicable federal, state, and local  
    telecommunications laws and regulations, except those requirements and  
    standards which are not applicable to the Licensee.  
  
    SECTION 12  RELOCATION, REPLACEMENT, AND REMOVAL OF THE SEWER SYSTEM  
  
    If the City determines that any part of the Sewer System must be  
    relocated, rebuilt, abandoned, or modified in any way, the Licensee  
    shall be responsible for any and all costs associated with changes to  
    the Facilities.  This includes the engineering, design, construction,  
    and relocation of the Facilities.  The work must be done in a timely  
    manner.  Cities shall notify the Licensee as soon as practicable of  
    the need for relocation and shall specify the date by which relocation  
    shall be completed. The scheduling of the Sewer System design and  
    construction shall not be adversely impacted by the design and  
    construction of the Facilities modifications.  City shall use its best  
    reasonable efforts to avoid any such relocation, replacement, or  
    removal and any interruption in Licensee's business.  
  
    SECTION 13  TEMPORARY INTERRUPTIONS OF SERVICE  
  
    If the City reasonably and in good faith determines under applicable  
    standards, specifications or other requirements relating to pubic  
    health, welfare or safety that continued operation of the Facilities  
    in the Sewer System would cause or contribute to an immediate threat  
    to public health, welfare or safety, the City may, without prior  
    notice to the Licensee, interrupt operation of the Facilities in the  
    Sewer System or may order the Licensee to discontinue operation of the  
    Facilities in the Sewer System.  Service shall be discontinued only  
    for the period that the immediate threat exists.  If prior notice is  
    not given to the Licensee, the City shall notify the Licensee as soon  
    as possible after the City's action and give the City's reason for  
    taking the action.  The City shall not be liable to the Licensee or  
    any other person or entity for any interruption in the Licensee's  
    service or interference with the Licensee's operation of the  
    Facilities in the Sewer System if the City has acted in accordance  
    with this Section 13.  This paragraph shall also apply to any  
    relocation of the Sewer System, with prior notice of at least thirty  
    (30) days.  
  
    SECTION 14   INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATIONS  
  
    The Licensee shall not operate the Facilities in the Sewer System in a  
    manner that materially interferes with the operations of the Sewer  
    System by the City.  If such interference occurs, the Licensee shall,  
    following written notice thereof from the City, take appropriate  
    measures necessary to eliminate or correct such interference.  If such  
    interference cannot be eliminated within 72 hours after receiving the  
    City's written notice of such interference, the Licensee shall  
    immediately cease operating the component or components of the  
    Facilities in the Sewer System causing such interference and shall not  
    reactivate operation thereof, except intermittent operation for the  
    purpose of testing, until such interference has been corrected or  
    eliminated.  If such interference continues to occur thirty (30) days  
    after the Licensee has received the City's written notice, the City  
    may, at its option, terminate this Agreement immediately upon written  
    notice to the Licensee.  
  
    SECTION 15  INTERFERENCE WITH COMMUNICATIONS  
  
    The City agrees that it shall not conduct its operations in the Sewer  
    System so as to unreasonably interfere with the Licensee's  
    installation, maintenance or operation of the Facilities.  The City  
    further agrees that it will require any licensees or other persons or  
    entities acquiring rights to use or occupy the Sewer System to provide  
    to the City the same assurances against interference required of the  
    City pursuant to this Agreement, so long as such notification does not  
    materially interfere or delay the approval of any other sewer  
    improvement program.  If such interference is not eliminated, the  
    Licensee shall have the right to terminate this Agreement or seek  
    injunctive relief enjoining such interfering use generated by any such  
    licensee or other person or entity or seek other redress with respect  
    thereto.  Licensee covenants and agrees that the City will not be  
    named in any suit for injunctive purposes arising out of this Section  
    15.  
  
    SECTION 16.  PRIORITY RESTORATION  
  
    Restoration of City services shall be given the highest priority in  
    the event that any of these services and the Licensee's  
    telecommunication services are interrupted at the same time, unless  
    otherwise agreed to by the City and the Licensee at the time of  
    restoration.  
  
    SECTION 17  CONDEMNATION AND CASUALTY  
  
    17.1  In the event the whole of the Sewer System is taken by eminent  
    domain, this Agreement shall terminate as of the date title to the  
    Sewer System vests in the condemning authority.  In the event a  
    portion of the Sewer System is taken by eminent domain so as to  
    prohibit the Licensee's installation, maintenance or operation of the  
    Facilities in the Sewer System in a commercially reasonable manner,  
    either party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement as of  
    the date of title transfer, by giving thirty (30) days' written notice  
    to the other party.  All damages, whether or not awarded as  
    compensation for diminution in value of the Sewer System shall belong  
    to the Licensor.  All damages, whether or not awarded as compensation  
    for diminution in value of the Facilities shall belong to the  
    Licensee.  
  
    17.2  If at any time during the term of this Agreement all or  
    substantially all of the Facilities shall be damaged and/or destroyed  
    by fire or other casualty, then the Licensee may terminate this  
    Agreement by providing written notice to the Licensor, which  
    termination shall be effective as of the date of such notice, and  
    whereupon the Licensee shall be entitled to collect all insurance  
    proceeds payable on account thereof under policies of insurance  
    maintained by the Licensee.  Licensee shall remove all damaged  
    Facilities pursuant to the terms of Section 27.2.  
  
    SECTION 18  NETWORK  
  
    With respect to the Facilities to be installed/constructed by the  
    Licensee in the Sewer System, the parties hereby agree as follows:  
  
    (a)  The parties hereby acknowledge that the date for commencement of  
    installation/construction of the Facilities, the design for  
    installation/construction of the Facilities and the process and timing  
    of installation/construction of the Facilities shall be determined and  
    directed by the Licensee upon approval by the City and under its sole  
    supervision (subject to the City's review of plans described in  
    Section 5 hereof and the Licensee's compliance with its and  
    installation/construction duties described therein) subject to the  
    inspection and approval of appropriate personnel of the City as  
    specified in Section 22.  
  
    (b)  The Licensee shall maintain during the term of this Agreement the  
    duty of maintenance and repair of the Facilities and the areas of the  
    Sewer System in which the facilities are installed, but Licensee's  
    obligation to maintain and repair the Sewer System shall be limited to  
    such maintenance and repairs that are necessitated or caused by  
    Licensee's activities in the Sewer System and the cleaning  
    requirements in Section 8.  In connection therewith, the Licensee  
    shall have the duty of maintaining the Facilities in compliance with  
    any and all applicable lighting, painting, marking or their  
    requirements pertaining to the Facilities or similar facilities  
    promulgated by federal, state or local agencies, or authorities having  
    jurisdiction with respect thereto.  In the case of casualty or  
    condemnation affecting the Facilities as described in Section 17  
    hereof, the Licensee's rights with respect to this Agreement shall be  
    as described in said Section 17 hereof.  
  
    SECTION 19  CONTRACTOR APPROVALS  
  
    19.1  All contractors hired by the Licensee to work within or on the  
    Sewer System or any other City facilities shall be subject to approval  
    by appropriate City Manager(s), which approval shall not be  
    unreasonably withheld or delayed.  In all agreements with contractors,  
    the Licensee may require such contractors to attend a pre-construction  
    meeting with the appropriate authority to review installation  
    requirements and Work restrictions prior to any Work being performed  
    in or on the Sewer System or any other City facilities.  The  
    contractor's agreement shall state that the appropriate City Manager  
    has authority to stop Work as specified in Section 22 and may require  
    that inadequate Work be corrected after discussion with Licensee  
    representatives.  
  
    19.2.  Where identified by the City, certain portions of the Sewer  
    System may require, due to the nature of the area, that all Work be  
    completed by the City at Licensee's expense pursuant to the  
    reimbursement provisions of Section 32.  
  
    SECTION 20  REQUESTS FOR ACCESS  
  
    Access to Facilities shall be allowed only after the SPU Director or  
    his designee has been notified, and permission has been granted by the  
    appropriate City Manager pursuant to the following:  
  
    (a)  All requests for access to Facilities must be made through the  
    appropriate City Manager or designee in writing (facsimile and email  
    are acceptable), and shall be subject to the restrictions and  
    conditions in this Agreement.  
  
    (b)  The Licensee shall notify the SPU Director or his designee at  
    least three (3) working days before access to the Sewer System or any  
    other City facility is desired.  The affected City Department will  
    respond to requests for access from the Licensee at least twenty-four  
    (24) hours prior to the requested start time and no later than 48  
    hours from the receipt of the request, indicating whether access has  
    been granted as requested, access has been delayed or access has been  
    denied.  
  
    (c)  In the event of an emergency, requests for access may be made in  
    person or by telephone.  The City shall provide a mechanism to request  
    emergency access on a 24-hour, 7 day a week basis.  In such cases, the  
    Licensee will follow up with prompt written documentation of the  
    request.  
  
    (d)  The City shall make every effort to provide access to Facilities  
    during the times requested by the Licensee.  However, the City may not  
    be able to accommodate all requests, and will not be liable for any  
    damages or loss the Licensee may sustain due to the Licensee's  
    inability to access the Facilities.  The Licensee is responsible to  
    plan accordingly.  
  
    All access to the Sewer System or other City facilities by the  
    Licensee or its contractors must be coordinated with the appropriate  
    authority staff designated by the appropriate City Manager(s).  The  
    Licensee and its contractors must comply with whatever conditions for  
    access to the Sewer System or other City facilities that are specified  
    by designated City Manager and must be performed in a manner  
    consistent with permits.  
  
    SECTION 21  SECURED FACILITIES  
  
    If any Facilities are contemplated to be located on or in portions of  
    the Sewer System identified as secured area, Licensee shall be  
    accompanied by City staff, at Licensee's expense, pursuant to the  
    reimbursement provisions of Section 32.  City shall maintain a call-  
    out system to facilitate Licensee's access on a continuous basis for  
    emergency maintenance and repairs.  
  
    SECTION 22  PROJECT CONTROL  
  
    City staff shall be authorized to stop Work that is being conducted by  
    the Licensee and its contractors if, after discussions with the  
    Licensee if reasonably feasible, City staff determine that the Work in  
    question would or could potentially cause hazards to workers or to the  
    general public or interference with the City Sewer System or other  
    City facilities, or facilities of other users on-site.  
  
    SECTION 23  PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES  
  
    23.1  The Licensee understands and agrees that any hazardous,  
    dangerous or toxic material, waste or substance, or other pollutant or  
    contaminant, regulated under federal, state or local law, or any  
    substance prohibited by the City of Seattle from discharge into a  
    public drainage control system according to the terms of Seattle  
    Municipal Code ("S.M.C.") 22.802.012 or into a public sewer system,  
    drain, ditch or natural watercourse according to the terms of S.M.C.  
    21.16.300, as hereafter amended or supplemented ("Prohibited  
    Substances"), are not allowed in or around the Sewer System or any  
    other City facilities without the express written permission of the  
    City.  In the event written permission to store the preceding  
    substances is granted by the City, the Licensee agrees to dispose of  
    such substances in a legal manner.  
  
    23.2   Prior approval may be obtained for Prohibited Substances used  
    during construction through the construction approval process.  Prior  
    approval may also be obtained for the use of petroleum products for  
    emergency generation of electrical power during periods of outage.  
    Prior to initiating any other process requiring the use or storage of,  
    or generating, on or adjacent to the Sewer System or any other City  
    facilities, Prohibited Substances, the Licensee covenants and agrees  
    to obtain the City's prior approval.  The City may consider approving  
    the specific use, but only after the Licensee demonstrates to the  
    satisfaction of the City that Licensee has all necessary permits, if  
    any, for operation and a Prohibited Substances emergency response  
    plan.  
  
    23.3  Licensee agrees to cooperate in any environmental audits  
    conducted by the City's staff or independent third parties  
    specifically related to the Licensee's use or storage of Prohibited  
    Substances.  Licensee agrees to reimburse the City for the cost of  
    such audits.  Licensee agrees to provide the City with notice of every  
    governmental inspection of the Sewer System or any other City  
    facilities, notice of violation, and order to clean up contamination,  
    within five (5) days after receipt thereof by the Licensee.  Licensee  
    agrees to permit the City to participate in all settlement or  
    abatement discussions.  In the event Licensee fails to take remedial  
    measures, as required by any final administrative or judicial order,  
    decrees signed by a state, federal, or local regulatory agency within  
    90 days of such order or decree, the City may elect to perform such  
    work, and Licensee covenants and agrees to reimburse the City for all  
    direct costs and Indirect Costs associated with the City's work.  
  
    23.4  Licensee hereby agrees to release, defend and indemnify the City  
    and hold the City harmless for any suits, claims, damages, strict  
    liabilities, and costs or liabilities associated with the removal or  
    remediation of any Prohibited Substances that are released in, onto or  
    from the Sewer System or any other City facilities, or otherwise come  
    to be located on the Sewer System or any other City facilities during  
    the term of the Agreement, including but not limited to those that may  
    have migrated to or from the Sewer System or any other City  
    facilities, due to the actions of the Licensee.  "Cost" shall include,  
    but not be limited to, all response or remediation costs, disposal  
    fees, investigation costs, monitoring costs, civil or criminal  
    penalties, attorney fees, and other litigation costs incurred in  
    connection with such removal or remediation.  
  
    SECTION 24  RIGHTS OF PROPERTY and EASEMENTS  
  
    24.1  Nothing in this Agreement, including any attachments hereto,  
    shall be construed to convey to the Licensee any property rights in  
    the Sewer System or any other City facilities.  Nothing in this  
    Agreement, including any attachments hereto, shall be construed to  
    compel the City to maintain any of the Sewer System or any other City  
    facility for a period longer than is necessary for the City's own  
    service requirements.  This Agreement shall not be construed as  
    requiring the City to obtain any easement for the benefit of the  
    Licensee. All Facilities installed by the Licensee shall remain the  
    property of the Licensee, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties in  
    an amendment hereto, or as otherwise provided in this Agreement.  
  
    24.2  Licensee shall secure from appropriate private property owners  
    any easement it deems necessary to cross private property in order to  
    complete any installation of Facilities.  
  
    24.3  Licensee shall secure any permits required to install connecting  
    facilities in the right of way or on private property.  This License  
    shall not be construed as a grant of permit for installation of  
    facilities in other than the Sewer System.  
  
    SECTION 25  TAXES  
  
    The Licensee shall pay any applicable taxes assessed on, or any  
    portion of such taxes attributable to, the Facilities located in the  
    Sewer System.  
  
    SECTION 26  NO WARRANTIES  
  
    THE CITY MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES AND SHALL NOT IN ANY  
    WAY BE LIABLE FOR OR WITH RESPECT TO: THE CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY OR  
    THE SEWER SYSTEM OR THE SUITABILITY OF THE LICENSE FOR LICENSEE'S  
    INTENDED USE OR FOR ANY USE WHATOSEVER AND LICENSEE ASSUMES THE  
    RESPONSIBILITY AND RISKS OF ALL DEFECTS AND CONDITIONS IN THE SEWER  
    SYSTEM AND SURROUNDING AREAS, IF ANY, THAT CANNOT BE OBSERVED BY  
    CASUAL INSPECTION.  LICENSEE ACKNOWLEDEGES THAT LICENSEE HAS HAD THE  
    OPPORTUNITY TO INSPECT THE SEWER SYSTEM AND LICENSEE WILL BE RELYING  
    ENTIRELY UPON ITS OWN INSPECTION AND/OR ON ANY CONSULTANT LICENSEE MAY  
    RETAIN.  
  
    SECTION 27.  TERMINATION.  
  
    27.1  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Agreement  
    may be terminated by the terminating party described below upon sixty  
    (60) days prior written notice to the other party as follows: (i) by  
    either party upon a default of any material covenant or term hereof by  
    the other party, which default is not cured within sixty (60) days  
    after receipt of written notice of default to the other party  
    (without, however, limiting any other rights of the parties pursuant  
    to any other provision hereof); provided, however, that if such  
    default is capable of being cured, but not within such 60-day period,  
    this Agreement may not be terminated so long as the defaulting party  
    commences appropriate curative action within such period and  
    thereafter diligently prosecutes such cure to completion as promptly  
    as possible; (ii) by the Licensee if it is unable to obtain or  
    maintain any license, permit or other governmental approval necessary  
    for the installation/construction, maintenance or operation of the  
    Facilities in the Sewer System ; (iii) by the Licensee if the Sewer  
    System  or the Facilities is or becomes unacceptable under the  
    Licensee's system design, interference standards, engineering  
    specifications or usage patterns applicable to the Facilities; (iv) by  
    the City if, under relevant building, structural or engineering codes  
    or standards applicable to the Facilities, the Facilities is  
    structurally unsound (provided, however, that this Agreement shall not  
    terminate if the Licensee repairs, refurbishes or otherwise remedies  
    the Facilities within such 60-day notice period so that the  
    structurally unsound condition no longer exists); (v) by the City for  
    a breach of a material term of this Agreement not cured within the  
    time prescribed by the Agreement upon sixty (60) days' written notice  
    by the City upon Licensee; and (vi) by the City in its sole  
    discretion.  The foregoing shall not be deemed to shorten the period  
    applicable to the City's right to terminate this Agreement for  
    interference by the Licensee as set forth in Section 15 hereof or as  
    provided above in Section 12(a) hereof.  
  
    27.2  Unless the City and the Licensee shall otherwise agree, upon  
    termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 3, 14, 15, 17 or  
    expiration, or otherwise, the Licensee shall remove the Facilities  
    from the Sewer System within one hundred twenty days (120) days after  
    the date of termination upon receiving written authorization of such  
    work from the City.  In removing the Facilities pursuant to this  
    Section, the Licensee shall restore the Sewer System to substantially  
    the same condition in which the Sewer System was prior to its use by  
    the Licensee, normal wear and tear expected, all at the Licensee's  
    sole cost and expense.  Any parts of the Facilities which are not  
    removed by the end of said one hundred twenty (120) day period shall,  
    at the City's option, become the property of the City, and the  
    Licensee shall have no further rights or obligations with respect  
    thereto.  
  
    27.3  Notice of any party's exercise of its right to terminate under  
    this Section 27 shall be given to the other party in writing in  
    accordance with Section 38 hereof, and shall be effective upon the  
    sixtieth (60th) day after receipt of such notice by such other party.  
  
    27.4  In the event that the City exercises its right to terminate this  
    Agreement under Subsection 27.1(vi), the Licensee shall be entitled to  
    reasonable compensation for its then existing Facilities.  Within  
    thirty (30) days of the City's termination notice under Subsection  
    27,1(vi), Licensee shall submit a report to the City setting out  
    Licensee's assessment of the reasonable value of the then existing  
    Facilities, including the methodology, assumptions and limiting  
    conditions on which the report is based.  In addition, the Licensee  
    shall provide such other and further information regarding its  
    technical and customer operations, contractual or other legal  
    obligations, and financial history and current condition as the City  
    may request.  The City and Licensee shall then determine the  
    reasonable compensation to be paid, less any offsets, by mutual  
    agreement.  If the City and Licensee are unable to agree within 120  
    days after the City's receipt of Licensee's report, then the City may  
    demand that the reasonable value be determined by arbitration in King  
    County Washington and the parties hereto will mutually select and  
    engage the services of an independent arbiter through the American  
    Arbitration Association to resolve the reasonable value of the then  
    existing Facilities. The decision of the arbiter is binding as to the  
    reasonable value, and the costs of arbitration will be shared equally  
    by both parties. The arbiter shall be limited to selecting a  
    reasonable value within the range defined by the Licensee's report and  
    the City's response to such report.  Nothing in this provision shall  
    be construed to alter, terminate or eliminate any of the Licensee's  
    duties under Subsection 27.2 above.  
  
    SECTI0N 28  ABANDONMENT  
  
    In the event Licensee, or any successor of Licensee, ceases to use any  
    Facilities for a period of one year, or Licensee evidences any other  
    form of abandonment of the Facilities, including a rejection of the  
    Facilities or any ownership rights in the Facilities by a Bankruptcy  
    Court that has jurisdiction over Licensee, Licensee shall remove all  
    of its Facilities within the Sewer System pursuant to Section 27.2.  
    If Licensee fails to comply with Section 27.2, the City shall obtain,  
    at its option, full and complete right, title and ownership of the  
    Facilities.  
  
    SECTION 29.  ATTORNEY FEES AND COSTS  
  
    29.1  In the event legal action is taken or commenced among the  
    parties hereto, declaratory or otherwise, for the enforcement of any  
    of the covenants, terms, or conditions of this Agreement, the  
    prevailing party shall be entitled to its costs and reasonable  
    attorney fees as determined by the trial and appellate courts.  
  
    29.2  Costs and reasonable attorney fees shall include, but not be  
    limited to, reasonable attorney fees, paralegal and legal support  
    staff expenses, costs of arbitration, mediation, expert witnesses,  
    exhibits, reasonable investigations, and reimbursement for all time,  
    expense, and overhead of all prevailing party personnel or consultants  
    assisting in the legal action or responding to or investigating a  
    claim or demand.  
  
    SECTION 30  RELEASE, INDEMNITY AND HOLD HARMLESS  
  
    30.1  Licensee releases and shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless  
    the City, its successors and assigns, and the respective directors,  
    officers, employees and agents of the City and its successors and  
    assigns (collectively referred to as the "Indemnitees") from any and  
    all claims, losses, costs, liabilities, damages and expenses  
    (including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees) arising  
    out of or in connection with the installation of any Facilities, the  
    performance of any Work, the operation of any of Licensee's equipment,  
    or the Facilities (including but not limited to any actions of the  
    City, or others within the Sewer System and/or right-of-way) which  
    causes any damages to the Facilities, or the acts or omissions of  
    Licensee or any of its suppliers or contractors of any tier, the  
    respective successors and assigns of Licensee or any such suppliers or  
    contractors, the directors, officers, employees and agents of each of  
    the foregoing, or anyone acting on Licensee's behalf in connection  
    with said installation of the Facilities, performance of Work, or  
    operation of Licensee's equipment or the Facilities unless caused by  
    the sole negligence or intentional acts of the indemnitees.  
  
    30.2  Such indemnity, protection and hold harmless shall include any  
    demand, claim, suit or judgment for damages to property or injury to  
    or death of persons, including officers, agents, and employees of  
    either party hereto including payment made under or in connection with  
    any Worker's Compensation Law or under any plan for employees'  
    disability and death benefits, which may arise out of or be caused or  
    contributed to by the erection, maintenance, presence, use or removal  
    of Licensee's attachments or by the proximity of the respective  
    cables, wires, apparatus and appliances of Licensee including any  
    claims or demands of customers of the Licensee with respect thereto.  
    LICENSEE EXPRESSLY WAIVES BY MUTUAL NEGOTIATION, WITH RESPECT TO THE  
    CITY, ALL IMMUNITY AND LIMITATION ON LIABILITY UNDER ANY INDUSTRIAL  
    INSURANCE ACT, INCLUDING TITLE 51 RCW, OTHER WORKER'S COMPENSATION  
    ACT, DISABILITY BENEFIT ACT, OR OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT ACT OF ANY  
    JURISDICTION WHICH WOULD OTHERWISE BE APPLICABLE IN THE CASE OF SUCH  
    CLAIM.  
  
    30.3  The City shall not be liable to the Licensee or to the  
    Licensee's customers, and the Licensee hereby indemnifies, protects  
    and saves harmless the City against any and all such claims or  
    demands, suit or judgment for loss, liability, damages and expense by  
    the Licensee's customers, for any interruption to the service of the  
    Licensee, or for interference with the operation of the cables, wires,  
    and appliances of the Licensee, or for interference with the operation  
    of the cables, wires, and appliances of the Licensee, unless caused by  
    the sole negligence or intentional acts of City.  
  
    30.4  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the foregoing  
    release, indemnity and hold harmless shall apply to and for the  
    benefit of the Indemnitees.  If it is determined that RCW 4.24.115  
    applies to this Agreement, the Licensee agrees to defend, indemnify  
    and hold harmless the Indemnitees to the maximum extent permitted  
    thereunder, and specifically for the Licensee's negligence concurrent  
    with that of the Indemnitees to the full extent of the Licensee's  
    negligence.  
  
    30.5  The City is willing to permit installation of the Facilities in  
    the Sewer System for the fees described in Section 4 only in  
    consideration of and in reliance upon such release, indemnity and hold  
    harmless agreements contained in this Section 30.  
  
    SECTION 31  WORKER'S COMPENSATION, INSURANCE AND BONDS  
  
    31.1  Licensee shall ensure that, with respect to all persons  
    performing the Work, Licensee or its suppliers or contractors maintain  
    in effect at all times during the term coverage or insurance in  
    accordance with the applicable laws relating to worker's compensation  
    and employer's liability (including, but not limited to, the  
    Washington Industrial Insurance Act and the laws of the state in which  
    any such person was hired), regardless of whether such coverage or  
    insurance is mandatory or merely elective under the law.  Licensee  
    shall furnish to the City such assurance and evidence of such coverage  
    or insurance (such as copies of insurance policies and Certificates of  
    Compliance issued by the Washington State Department of Labor and  
  
    Industries) as the City may request.  
  
    31.2  Licensee shall obtain, and maintain continuously for the term of  
    this Agreement, at its own expense, occurrence form Commercial General  
    Liability insurance with endorsements and/or other insurance to  
    indemnify for the activities and services of this Agreement.  Minimum  
    limit of coverage shall be $1,000,000 each occurrence and in the  
    aggregate.  The insurance carrier issuing the policy must have an A.M.  
    Best rating of at least A-:VII and be legally admitted and licensed to  
    do business in the State of Washington.  
  
      31.3  Such insurance shall be endorsed to include The City of  
    Seattle, its directors, officers, employees and agents and joint users  
    as additional insured, and shall not be reduced or canceled without  
    forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City.  
  
      31.4  Such insurance shall include a "cross liability",  
    "severability of interests", or "separation of insureds" clause  
    indicating essentially that "except with respect to the limits of  
    insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned in this  
    coverage part to the first named insured, this insurance applies as if  
    each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each  
    insured against whom the claim is made or suit is brought.  
  
      31.5  Prior to commencement of performance of any of the Work, the  
    Licensee shall provide the City either:  
  
    (a)  a duplicate (photocopy or facsimile acceptable) of the insurance  
    policy with its endorsements as evidence of coverage, or  
  
    (b)  Declaration pages, including policy face, coverage page, and list  
    of forms endorsement, or  
  
    (c)  a letter from Licensee's insurance broker outlining carrier,  
    limits, coverage, terms, and that it meets the requirements under the  
    contract, along with the certificate of insurance and additional  
    insured endorsement.  
  
    31.6  The company or companies issuing such insurance and the policies  
    issued shall be subject to approval by the City.  
  
    31.7  The Licensee shall promptly advise the City of all claims  
    relating to damage to property or injury to or death of persons  
    arising or alleged to have arisen in any manner by, or directly or  
    indirectly associated with, the erection, maintenance, presence, use  
    or removal of the Licensee's equipment.  Copies of all accident or  
    other reports made to any insurer by the Licensee shall be furnished  
    to the City.  
  
    31.8  Licensee shall also furnish the City with such additional  
    assurance and evidence of such insurance as the City may from time to  
    time reasonably request.  Within thirty (30) days after any notice of  
    termination, cancellation, expiration or alteration in any policy of  
    insurance required under this Agreement, Licensee shall deliver to the  
    City a Certificate of Insurance acceptable to the City with respect to  
    any replacement policy.  
  
    31.9  Licensee shall ensure that any policies of insurance that  
    Licensee or any of its suppliers or contractors of any tier carry as  
    insurance against property damage or against liability for personal  
    injury (including death) shall include a provision therein providing a  
    waiver of the insurer's right to subrogation against the indemnitees.  
    To the extent permitted by its insurance policies, the City hereby  
    waives all rights of subrogation against Licensee, its successors and  
    assigns, and the respective directors, officers, employees and agents  
    of Licensee and its successors and assigns.  
  
    31.10  The requirements of this Agreement as to insurance and  
    acceptability to the City of insurers and insurance to be maintained  
    by Licensee are not intended to and shall not in any manner limit or  
    qualify the liabilities and obligations of or assumed by Licensee  
    under this Agreement.  
  
    31.11  In addition, Licensee shall furnish to the City, at such times  
    and in such forms as the City may in writing request, surety bonds  
    with performance, payment and maintenance clauses payable to the City.  
  
    SECTION 32  NONDISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYEE BENEFITS  
  
      32.1  Licensee shall comply with the requirements of S.M.C. Ch.  
    20.45 and Equal Benefits Program Rules implementing such requirements,  
    under which the Licensee is obligated to provide the same or  
    equivalent benefits ("Equal Benefits") to its employees with domestic  
    partners as the Licensee provides to its employees with spouses.  At  
    the City's request, the Licensee shall provide complete information  
    and verification of the Licensee's compliance with S.M.C. Ch. 20.45.  
    Failure to cooperate with such a request shall constitute a material  
    breach of this Agreement.  (For further information about S.M.C. Ch.  
    20.45 and the Equal Benefits Program Rules call (206) 684-0202 or  
    review information at  
    http://cityofseattle.net/contract/equalbenefits/)  
  
    32.2  Any violation of the provisions of S.M.C. Ch. 20.45 shall be a  
    material breach of the Agreement for which the Licensee shall be  
    subject to the remedies thereunder, including but not limited to  
    payment of liquidated damages in the amount of five hundred dollars  
    ($500) for each day that the Licensee is in violation of S.M.C. Ch.  
    20.45 during the term of the Agreement, termination of the Agreement,  
    disqualification of Licensee from bidding on or being awarded a City  
    Contract for a period of up to five (5) years, and/or other remedies  
    as specifically provided for in S.M.C. Ch. 20.45 and the Equal  
    Benefits Program Rules promulgated thereunder.  
  
    SECTION 33    REIMBURSEMENT  
  
    Licensee shall reimburse the City within thirty (30) days after  
    receipt of invoice for all amounts paid and costs incurred by the City  
    at Licensee's expense under Paragraphs 5.3, 6.5, 9.3, 9.4, 9.5 and  
    19.2, Section 21 and any other relevant provision of this Agreement.  
  
    SECTION 34  LATE CHARGES AND INTEREST  
  
      Licensee acknowledges that late payment of any fee or other amounts  
    due to the City under this Agreement will cause the City to incur  
    certain administrative, processing and accounting costs not otherwise  
    contemplated by this Agreement, the exact amount of which will be  
    extremely difficult, if not impossible, to ascertain.  Accordingly, if  
    any fee or other amounts shall not be received by the City within  
    thirty (30) days after such amounts shall first become due, after 10  
    days written notice to Licensee, Licensee shall pay to the City  
    interest, compounded daily, at the rate of one percent (1%) per month  
    or the maximum rate permitted by applicable law, whichever is less, on  
    any fees or other amounts not paid to the City when due under this  
    Agreement, from the date due until the date paid.  Payment of such  
    interest shall not excuse or cure any breach of or default under this  
    Agreement by Licensee.  
  
    SECTION 35  NONWAIVER  
  
    The failure of the City to insist upon or enforce strict performance  
    by Licensee of any of the provisions of this Agreement or to exercise  
    any rights under this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver or  
    relinquishment to any extent of its right to assert or rely upon any  
    such provisions or rights in that or any other instance; rather, the  
    same shall be and remain in full force and effect.  
  
    SECTION 36  ASSIGNMENT; SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS  
  
    Licensee shall not assign, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of  
    the privileges granted under this Agreement without the written  
    consent of the City, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.  
  
    SECTION 37  SURVIVAL  
  
    The obligations imposed on Licensee under Sections 3, 23, 27, 28, and  
    30 and all other provisions of this Agreement, which may reasonably be  
    interpreted or construed as surviving the completion, termination or  
    cancellation of this Agreement, shall survive the completion,  
    termination or cancellation of this Agreement.  
  
    SECTION 38  APPLICABLE LAW; VENUE  
  
    This Agreement shall in all respects be interpreted, construed and  
    enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington and  
    the sole venue for any action arising out of this Agreement shall be  
    the Superior Court of King County, King County, Washington.  
  
    SECTION 39  NOTICES.  
  
    All notices hereunder must be in writing and shall be deemed validly  
    given if sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, by personal  
    delivery against receipt or by overnight delivery by a nationally  
    recognized carrier, addressed as follows (or to any other address that  
    the party to be notified may have designated to the sender by like  
    notice):  
  
    If to the City in person, to:  
    SPU Real Property Services  
    810  3rd Avenue, Suite 300  
    Seattle, WA  98104  
    Attention:  Manager, Real Property Services  
  
    If to the City by mail, to  
    SPU Real Property Services  
    Key Tower, Suite 4900  
    700 Fifth Ave.  
    Seattle, Washington  98104-5004  
  
    If to Licensee, to:  
  
    With a copy to:  
  
    SECTION 40  HEADINGS  
  
    The titles of sections are for convenience only and do not define or  
    limit the contents.  
  
    SECTION 41  NON-EXCLUSIVITY  
  
    This is a non-exclusive arrangement.  
  
    SECTION 42.  RIGHTS CUMULATIVE  
  
    The rights and remedies of the parties provided for under this  
    Agreement are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by  
    law.  The failure to exercise on any occasion any right shall not  
    operate to forfeit such right on another occasion.  The use of one  
    remedy shall not exclude or waive the right to use another.  
  
    SECTION 43  CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIP  
  
    This Agreement does not constitute the Licensee as the agent or legal  
    representative of the City for any purpose whatsoever.  The Licensee  
    is not granted any express or implied right or authority to assume or  
    create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of or in the name of  
    the City or to bind the City in any manner or thing whatsoever.  In no  
    event shall the City be construed or held to have become in any way or  
    for any purpose a partner, associate, or joint venture of the Licensee  
    or any party associated with the Licensee in the conduct of the  
    Licensee's business or otherwise.  
  
    SECTION 44  MOST FAVORED MUNICIPALITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION.  
  
    Licensee and the City acknowledge that the terms, benefits and  
    provisions of this Agreement are taken as a whole and entered into  
    based on specific requirements of the City.  Notwithstanding the  
    foregoing, if Licensee enters into an agreement with another  
    municipality or municipal corporation that contains a license/permit  
    fee in excess of the license/permit fee defined and set forth in this  
    Agreement in Section 2, then the license/permit fee shall be increased  
    to the same amount in this Agreement.  The Licensee shall then pay the  
    City the increased amount pursuant to the terms and conditions of this  
    Section and Section 2.  Licensee has a continuing obligation and  
    hereby agrees to inform the City of any license permit fee agreed to  
    by Licensee with any other municipality in excess of the license  
    permit fee defined and set forth in this Agreement.  
  
    SECTION 45  ENTIRE AGREEMENT  
  
    45.1  The entire Agreement shall consist of the general terms and  
    conditions contained in this Agreement and all the Appendices issued  
    concurrent with or subsequent to the execution of this Agreement and  
    any amendments to this Agreement.  
  
    45.2  The rights and obligations of the parties hereunder shall be  
    subject to and governed by this Agreement.  This Agreement sets forth  
    the entire agreement of the parties, and supersedes any and all prior  
    agreements, with respect to the attachment of the Facilities to the  
    poles.  
  
    45.3  This Agreement may not be modified except by a writing executed  
    contemporaneously herewith or subsequent hereto signed by both  
    parties.  
  
    45.4  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this  
    Agreement shall not affect the other provisions hereof, and this  
    Agreement shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid or  
    unenforceable provisions were omitted.  
  
    Licensee  
    Date Signed:___________________  Attest: _____________________  
    Address:_____________________    By:__________________________  
    ____________________________     Title:_______________________  
  
    The City of Seattle, by and through Seattle Public Utilities  
    Date Signed____________________  _____________________________  
    Address: ____________________    By: __________________________  
    ____________________________     Title: _______________________  
  
    ta  
