* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114500**   
**Ordinance Number: 121095**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Office of Housing to spend money appropriated for 2003 on an employee to fill a vacant Strategic Advisor 2 position.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 17, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Drago, Pageler)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 26, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 26, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 10, 2003   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services and Community Development   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER   
  
**Index Terms:** CITY-EMPLOYEES, BUDGET, WAGES-AND-SALARIES, OFFICE-OF-HOUSING  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Office of Housing to spend money  
    appropriated for 2003 on an employee to fill a vacant Strategic  
    Advisor 2 position.  
  
    WHEREAS, when the City Council, in Ordinance 121012, adopted the 2003  
    budget, one restriction on the budget was a budget proviso (Tab 59,  
    Action ID 3, Option A, Version 2) prohibiting the Office of Housing  
    from spending any money appropriated for it in that 2003 budget for  
    anyone filling two then-vacant positions, a Strategic Advisor 2  
    (erroneously referred to in the budget proviso as a Strategic Advisor  
    3) and a Community Development Specialist Sr., unless and until the  
    City Council explicitly authorized filling these positions by  
    ordinance; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the budget proviso further stated that such authorization by  
    the Council would not occur until after the City Auditor submitted a  
    report and recommendations to the Council regarding the appropriate  
    staffing and structure of the Office of Housing; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Auditor has submitted a portion of this report to the  
    Council that confirms the Office of Housing does have required work  
    that justifies the filling of one of these two vacant positions; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Council supports the Office of Housing's request that it  
    be permitted to fill the vacant Strategic Advisor 2 position; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City Auditor has some additional work to complete in its  
    review of the staffing and structure of the Office of Housing and a  
    consultant will be hired to review the staffing and structure of the  
    HomeWise Program, as directed by the Council; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Council will await the final work of the Auditor and the  
    work of a consultant who is reviewing the HomeWise Program before  
    making a decision regarding the use of appropriated funds to fill the  
    one remaining vacant Community Development Spec. Sr. position;  
  
    NOW THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The City Council hereby authorizes the Office of Housing  
    to spend money appropriated in its 2003 budget on an employee to fill  
    the vacant Strategic Advisor 2 position.  The Council will await the  
    final reports of the Auditor and the consultant hired to review the  
    HomeWise program before making a decision on whether the Office of  
    Housing shall be permitted to fill the one remaining vacant Community  
    Development Spec. Sr. position.  
  
    Section 2.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2003,  
    and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      President of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    tr  
  
    OH staffing  
  
    02-27-03  
  
    V #2  
