* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114581**   
**Ordinance Number: 121182**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Police Department; authorizing execution of a contract with the University District Service Fund for supplemental police services; accepting payment from the University District Service Fund for these services; increasing the 2003 Budget of the Police Department by making a reimbursable appropriation; and ratifying and confirming all prior acts; all by three-fourths vote of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 9, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 12, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 2, 2003   
**Committee:** Police, Fire, Courts and Technology   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON   
  
**Index Terms:** POLICE-DEPARTMENT, INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, SAFETY, POLICE, CRIME-PREVENTION, UNIVERSITY-DISTRICT  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114581.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114581  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Police Department; authorizing execution  
    of a contract with the University District Service Fund for  
    supplemental police services; accepting payment from the University  
    District Service Fund for these services; increasing the 2003 Budget  
    of the Police Department by making a reimbursable appropriation; and  
    ratifying and confirming all prior acts; all by three-fourths vote of  
    the City Council.  
  
    WHEREAS, the University of Washington, Safeco Corporation, University  
    Tower Hotel, Wells Fargo Bank, and University Bookstore have provided  
    a  $251,000 grant to the University District Service Fund ("UDSF"), a  
    not-for-profit 501(c) (3) corporation established by the University  
    District Chamber of Commerce, for the purpose of enhancing public  
    safety and the quality of life within the University District service  
    area bounded by Interstate 5 on the West, NE 50th Street on the North,  
    15th Avenue NE on the East, and Campus Parkway on the South; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the UDSF desires to offer grant funds to the City of Seattle  
    by contract with its Police Department for supplemental services over  
    a period of two years to enhance police presence and to help further  
    provide for the safety and protection of the public, property owners,  
    businesses and other uses within the University District service area;  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City and Police Department, by and through its North  
    Precinct, desire to accept such grant funds and to participate in a  
    contract with the UDSF to provide supplemental police services within  
    the University District service area;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  As requested by the Mayor, the Chief of Police or his  
    designee is authorized to execute for and on behalf of the City of  
    Seattle, a contract with the UDSF for supplemental police services up  
    to the total amount of $251,000 to help further provide for the safety  
    and protection of the public, property owners, businesses and other  
    uses within the University District service area.  These services  
    shall be provided during a two-year period beginning on the effective  
    date of the contract.   The funds, when received from the UDSF, are  
    hereby accepted and shall be deposited in the General Subfund.  
  
    Section 2.  To carry out the purpose of the agreement authorized in  
    Section 1, and contingent upon the execution of the contract  
    referenced in Section 1, the appropriation of the 2003 Budget of the  
    Police Department is increased as follows:  
  
    Fund                  Department        Budget Control Level          Amount  
  
       General Subfund      Police          North Precinct Program (P620)    $251,000  
      (00100)  
  
    Unspent funds appropriated by this Section shall carry forward to  
    subsequent fiscal years until they are exhausted or abandoned by  
    ordinance.  
  
      Section 3.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
      Section 4.  The foregoing appropriation is made to meet actual  
    necessary expenditures of the City for which no appropriation is made  
    due to causes which could not reasonably have been foreseen at the  
    time of the making of the 2003 Budget in accordance with RCW  
    35.32A.060.  
  
    Section 5.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    J. Pugel/M. Quinn  
  
    File:  Univ. Dist.  Service Fund Ord.  
  
    5/19/2003  
  
    Ver. 4  
