* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114553**   
**Ordinance Number: 121358**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE approving a development agreement with Simon Property Group, L.P. for the redevelopment of the Northgate Mall.  
  
**Status:** Passed as Amended   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 8, 2003   
**Vote:** 5-0 (Excused: Compton, McIver; Absent: Nicastro, Pageler)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 17, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 28, 2003   
**Committee:** Committee of the Whole   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-PLANNING, NORTHGATE, DEVELOPMENT-ACTIVITIES, NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS, SHOPPING-CENTERS  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: CB 114551, 114552; Res. 30327  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114553.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114553  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE approving a development agreement with Simon Property  
    Group, L.P. for the redevelopment of the Northgate Mall.  
  
    WHEREAS, the core of the Northgate neighborhood around the Northgate  
    Mall has not realized the vision of the Seattle Comprehensive Plan nor  
    the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the stagnation of this area, as evidenced by the recent  
    closure of the Northgate Theatre, lack of development on the Mall's  
    south parking lot, and lack of new investment in Northgate Mall is  
    detrimental to the neighborhood and contrary to the City's goals for  
    this designated Major Urban Center; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Northgate Urban Center is the only Seattle Urban Center  
    not achieving its Comprehensive Plan growth targets; and  
  
    WHEREAS, to prevent the continued decline of this area it is essential  
    that the City provide needed public improvements and amenities, and  
    create an improved climate for private investment in the neighborhood;  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City now has unique opportunities to help stem  
    neighborhood decline and to revitalize this important area to help  
    achieve the goals of the Comprehensive Plan and Northgate Area  
    Comprehensive Plan; and  
  
    WHEREAS, RCW 36.70B.170 et seq authorizes the City of Seattle to enter  
    into development agreements for the development of property; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City, for the reasons described in Section 3 of the  
    attached development agreement, finds that it is in the interest of  
    the general public to enter into the development agreement approved by  
    this ordinance;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The "Northgate Mall Development Agreement" attached hereto  
    as Exhibit "A" is hereby approved.  
  
    Section 2.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force the later  
    of:  
  
      a) thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if  
    not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020 (C) and (D); or  
  
      b) ten (10) days from and after the effective date of the ordinance  
    that was introduced as Council Bill 114767.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    President of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    Exhibit "A":  Northgate Mall Development Agreement  
    12/05/03  
    V #4  
    ta  
  
    EXHIBIT A:  NORTHGATE MALL DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT  
    NORTHGATE MALL DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT  
  
    1. LEGAL AUTHORITY  
  
    This development agreement ("Agreement") is made pursuant to the  
    authority of RCW 36.70B.170 et seq. and in order to be binding on the  
    parties requires approval by the Seattle City Council.  
  
    2. PARTIES  
  
    The parties to this Agreement are Simon Property Group, L.P.  
    ("Simon") and the City of Seattle ("City").  
  
    3.  PURPOSE OF THE AGREEMENT  
  
      The Seattle Comprehensive Plan and the Northgate Area Comprehensive  
    Plan designate the core area of the Northgate neighborhood as an Urban  
    Center.  Urban Centers are intended to accommodate the highest  
    densities and growth rates for jobs and housing within the City of  
    Seattle.  The existing Northgate Mall is the core of the Urban Center.  
  
      Despite the Urban Center designation, the Northgate Urban Center has  
    failed to realize the City's planning goals for that area.  New  
    development and redevelopment have been significantly less than  
    required to meet Northgate Urban Center employment and housing  
    targets.  In particular, proposals to revitalize the area through  
    expansion and redevelopment of the Northgate Mall have been thwarted  
    or significantly delayed by appeals and litigation.  
  
      To help prevent continuing economic stagnation of the area, the City  
    finds it must encourage and facilitate development and redevelopment  
    within the Northgate core.  One way to do this is to provide enhanced  
    predictability to developers regarding the application of City  
    development regulations.  This interest coincides with authority  
    granted to municipalities by the Washington Legislature to enter into  
    development agreements.  Development agreements authorized by RCW  
    36.70B provide authority to the City to enter into voluntary  
    contractual agreements between the private property owners and the  
    City, grant vested rights to proposed development, and to otherwise  
    regulate proposed development to achieve City objectives.  
  
      The purpose of this Agreement is to encourage the redevelopment of  
    the Northgate Mall in order to serve as a catalyst for the  
    rejuvenation of the Northgate neighborhood, thereby helping to achieve  
    the goals of the Seattle Comprehensive Plan, and to establish  
    agreements with Simon regarding specific projects.  
  
    4. RELATIONSHIP TO SIMON'S APPROVED GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN  
  
      On December 2, 1999 the City approved a General Development Plan  
    (GDPII) submitted by Simon. The City's approval was affirmed on appeal  
    to the Washington State Court of Appeals on August 12, 2002. Pursuant  
    to that approval and court decision, Simon has a vested right to  
    develop under the terms of the approved GDP.  
  
      In the event that Simon elects to undertake any of the proposed  
    development described in Section 6 of this Agreement, then the vested  
    rights conferred by this Agreement shall supercede all vested rights  
    obtained pursuant to approval of the GDP.  
  
    5.  RELATIONSHIP TO DEVELOPMENT OTHERWISE PERMITTED  
  
      Exhibit 1 illustrates the parcels and development areas covered in  
    this Agreement.  Simon is the owner of property known as the Northgate  
    Mall, which is located on the North Lot.   The North Lot is comprised  
    of the West Sector, the Southeast Sector and the Northeast Sector.  
  
      Simon is also the owner of the South Lot Parcels A and B.  The South  
    Lot Parcel A consists of approximately 5.9 acres, and the South Lot  
    Parcel B consists of approximately 2.7 acres.  The North Lot and South  
    Lot are separated by Northeast 103rd Street.  
  
      This Agreement governs proposed development within the West,  
    Northeast, and Southeast Sectors of the North Lot and Parcels A and B  
    of the South Lot as shown in Exhibit 1: Development Agreement Site  
    Plan.  Within those areas, proposed development must comply with this  
    Agreement.  
  
    6. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT  
  
      The proposed development that is the subject of this Agreement is  
    the development described in Subsections 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3 of this  
    Agreement.  
  
    6.1  Northgate Mall Expansions and New Buildings  
  
      Amount (square footage):  The total amount of new development  
    allowed on the North Lot is 230,000 square feet which shall be  
    allocated as follows:  155,250 square feet is allowed in the West  
    Sector, 63,250 square feet is allowed in the Northeast Sector, and  
    11,500 square feet is allowed in the Southeast Sector.  This amount  
    does not include the square footage associated with the development in  
    Subsections 6.2 and 6.3 nor does it include remodels/reconfigurations  
    within existing building footprints, sidewalks, outdoor public open  
    spaces, or other ancillary site amenities.  In the event Simon elects  
    to construct less than the allowable maximum square footage within one  
    or more sectors,  Simon shall have the right to allocate and use for  
    development such unused square footage for other development subject  
    to the limitations as follows:  
  
    Unused square footage from the West Sector may be transferred to the  
    Northeast or Southeast Sectors.  Unused square footage from the  
    Northeast Sector may not be transferred.  Unused square footage from  
    the Southeast Sector may be transferred to the Northeast Sector.  
  
    Use:  The proposed development is restricted to uses that are allowed  
    by the provisions of the Northgate Overlay District, SMC 23.71.  
  
    6.2  Northgate Mall Parking Garage  
  
      A parking garage may be constructed on the North Lot; however, if it  
    is built in the Northeast Sector, there shall be no parking or  
    structured parking (at ground level or on an upper floor) that fronts  
    on NE Northgate Way or 5th Avenue NE.  
  
    6.3  South Lot Parcel A  
  
    6.3.1  Permitted uses  
  
    The South Lot Parcel A may be developed for any use allowed in a  
    Neighborhood Commercial 3 zone as prescribed by SMC 23.47.004,  
    provided that:  
  
    1. Residential uses are included as prescribed in paragraph 4 of this  
    Subsection.  
  
    2. The following uses are prohibited:  
  
        A.  Drive-in business;  
        B.  Dry storage of boats;  
        C.  General manufacturing;  
        D.  Heavy commercial services;  
        E.  Sales and rental of large boats;  
        F.  Vessel repair (major or minor);  
        G.  Mini-warehouse or warehouse;  
        H.  Principal use, nonresidential long term parking;  
        I.  Outdoor Storage;  
        J.  Sale of heating fuel;  
        K.  Sale and rental of motorized vehicles, except within an  
            enclosed structure;  
        L.  Sales, service, and rental of commercial equipment and  
            construction materials:  
        M.  Salvage and recycling;  
        N.  Towing services;  
        O.  Vehicle repair (major or minor); and  
        P.  Wholesale showroom.  
  
    3. The proposed nonresidential uses must be of types and densities  
    that are supportive of transit oriented development.  Examples of such  
    uses include but are not limited to: childcare centers, schools,  
    cultural facilities, hotels, offices, theatres, grocery stores,  
    structured parking, other neighborhood and/or commuter-serving retail  
    or service uses.  
  
    4. If Parcel A is proposed to be developed in one phase, then the  
    proposed development shall include no fewer than 150 dwelling units.  
    Parcel A may be developed in two or three phases.  If developed in two  
    phases, then each phase must include a minimum of 75 dwelling units.  
    If developed in three phases, then each phase must include no fewer  
    than 50 dwelling units.  The land owner must describe proposed phasing  
    at the time of the first Master Use Permit application.  More than 150  
    dwelling units may be developed on Parcel A, but are not required.  
  
        6.3.2 Coordinated planning  
  
        As shown on Exhibit 1, King County intends to develop  
    approximately 8.5 acres of transit oriented development west of Parcel  
    A.  There are opportunities for Simon, King County and the City to  
    cooperate and coordinate transportation planning and mitigation,  
    pedestrian circulation, open space, and site planning and design for  
    development on the South Lot.  Simon will work with the County and  
    City to coordinate planning and site design regarding those issues.  
  
    6.4  Subsequent City permits  
  
    Approval of the development described in Subsections 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3  
    is subject to the compliance with all applicable City requirements  
    including, but not limited to, Master Use Permits (MUP), SMC 23.76  
    and the Washington State Environmental Policy Act Requirements (SEPA),  
    SMC 25.05.  Therefore, compliance with these regulatory processes may  
    result in the imposition of development requirements in addition to  
    the requirements contained in this Agreement.  As provided by RCW  
    36.70B.180, permits for the proposed development must be consistent  
    with this Agreement.  
  
    7. SIMON'S DUTIES  
  
    Simon agrees as follows:  
  
    7.1  Conveyance of the South Lot Parcel B  
  
      Commencing upon the effective date of this Agreement, Simon hereby  
    grants the City a one (1) year option to purchase Parcel B at a cost  
    of $375,000.  The City intends to develop the land as public open  
    space or for natural drainage/water quality improvements, or a  
    combination of the two.  If the City chooses not to exercise the  
    option, it shall expire exactly one year from the effective date of  
    this Agreement.  
  
    In order to exercise the option, the City shall notify Simon of its  
    decision by certified mail.  Within 30 days from receipt of the City's  
    notice to exercise the option, Simon and the City will execute a  
    purchase and sale agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit 2,  
    for conveyance of the South Lot Parcel B to the City.  The purchase  
    and sale agreement shall be submitted to Pacific Northwest Title  
    Company of Washington, Inc. at the time of execution.  Closing and  
    title transfer will occur on the later of 30 days after full execution  
    of the purchase and sale agreement or 15 days after recording of any  
    plat or short plat that may be necessary.  
  
    The City hereby commits to Simon that if it takes title to Parcel B  
    that it will use Parcel B (or a comparable amount of square footage  
    within the Northgate Overlay District in SMC 23.71.004) as open space,  
    and/or for stormwater improvements, which may be natural systems  
    drainage projects  or other stormwater improvements to benefit  
    Thornton Creek.  If the City elects to sell or transfer a portion of  
    Parcel B (or its comparable square footage) and does not choose to  
    maintain Parcel B or its equivalent as stated above, the City agrees  
    to pay Simon the greater of $35 per square foot or the proceeds  
    realized from the sale or transfer of any acreage not maintained in  
    the required usage 30 days after the closing date of any such sale or  
    transfer.  
  
    In addition, the City agrees to prohibit the following uses from being  
    developed on Parcel B:  
  
        A.  Drive-in business;  
        B.  Dry storage of boats;  
        C.  General manufacturing;  
        D.  Heavy commercial services;  
        E.  Sales and rental of large boats;  
        F.  Vessel repair (major or minor);  
        G.  Mini-warehouse or warehouse;  
        H.  Principal use, nonresidential long term parking;  
        I.  Outdoor Storage;  
        J.  Sale of heating fuel;  
        K.  Sale and rental of motorized vehicles, except within an  
            enclosed structure;  
        L.  Sales, service, and rental of commercial equipment and  
            construction materials:  
        M.  Salvage and recycling;  
        N.  Towing services;  
        O.  Vehicle repair (major or minor); and  
        P.  Wholesale showroom.  
  
    Furthermore, the City agrees that it will reconvey Parcel B to Simon  
    within 120 days if, after five years from the effective date of this  
    Agreement, no open space, natural drainage, stormwater improvements or  
    other allowable development has occurred on Parcel B.  
  
    7.2 Fifth Avenue Entrance  
  
      Simon shall design and construct, on Simon's property, a visually  
    attractive entry to the Mall from 5th Avenue that extends the  
    pedestrian connections between the new library and community center  
    and the Mall's 5th Avenue entrance.  
  
    Simon's Fifth Avenue Entrance will be designed and constructed  
    substantially as shown in the drawing included as Exhibit 4, Fifth  
    Avenue Entrance Conceptual Illustration, which the parties  
    acknowledge, may be refined through joint planning with the City as  
    described in Section 7.3, below. Design features of these improvements  
    shall include a more defined entrance to Northgate Mall, landscaping  
    improvements, street tree installation, well-lit, safe, raised edge  
    pedestrian walkways demarcated from adjoining pavement that connect  
    the street entry to the store entrances, pedestrian-scale lighting,  
    and amenities, such as benches and artwork.  
  
    Simon will complete construction of the approved work by the date of  
    the public opening of the library and/or community center, whichever  
    occurs later.  These facilities are projected to open in October 2005,  
    but if completion is delayed, Simon remains obligated to complete  
    construction by the dates of the public opening.  Subject to approval  
    by the Bon-Macy's or its successors or assigns the Simon's mall  
    driveway entry shall be relocated approximately twenty-five feet (25')  
    to the north of the present location and be directly aligned with the  
    primary access to the library and community center. The two entrances  
    will be configured by the Seattle Department of Transportation to  
    improve safety and operation of the intersection.  
  
    7.3  Joint Planning by Simon and the City to Coordinate Site Planning  
    of Fifth Avenue Streetscape Improvements and Fifth Avenue Entrance  
  
    Simon and the City each agree to work jointly to coordinate site  
    design work of the City's 5th Avenue Streetscape Improvements Project  
    and Simon's 5th Avenue Entrance (Section 7.2) Completion of  
    construction of these two projects is estimated to be October 2005.  
    Simon's design consultants will also participate in the library and  
    community center's planning and will provide comment regarding  
    planning for the Fifth Avenue Streetscape Improvements Project.  The  
    City will ensure that timely opportunities for public comment are  
    provided throughout.  
  
    In addition, as Simon proceeds with planning for development along 5th  
    Avenue NE, Simon will seek input and advice from the Northgate  
    stakeholders group.  
  
    7.4  Other Pedestrian Improvements  
  
    The MUP processes (which include zoning review, design review, and  
    SEPA review) will address pedestrian circulation for the development  
    proposed under this Agreement.  The City intends to develop a  
    pedestrian/open space conceptual plan and Simon will consider this  
    plan in designing the pedestrian improvements related to the  
    development contemplated under this Agreement.  
  
    7.5  Traffic Mitigation and Analysis  
  
      Subject to available resources, the City intends to prepare a  
    Coordinated Transportation Investment Plan (CTIP), for the Northgate  
    area to update prior traffic analyses and determine appropriate  
    potential mitigation measures and methods to apportion potential  
    mitigation to particular development projects.  Once the CTIP is  
    completed Simon may use that updated analysis in connection with any  
    proposal for development, to the extent such analysis is otherwise  
    applicable for compliance with City development regulations and SEPA.  
    Under this Agreement, Simon's contribution to the development of the  
    CTIP shall be to provide the City with the traffic model and related  
    transportation information and analysis, prepared by The Transpo Group  
    for approval of Simon's GDP.  
  
    7.6  Sustainable Design  
  
      Simon will consider using environmentally sustainable design and  
    green building techniques as it develops new buildings at the Mall.  
    The City's Office of Sustainability and Environment will provide Simon  
    and/or its architects with information and resources that may assist  
    them.  
  
    7.7  Natural Drainage Systems Techniques  
  
      Simon will consider incorporating natural drainage techniques into  
    its approach to required landscaping and stormwater management.  The  
    City will provide Simon information and resources that may assist  
    them.  
  
    7.8  Participation in the Northgate Stakeholders Group  
  
      It is the City's intention to facilitate the formation of a  
    community group to act as a steward of the Northgate Area  
    Comprehensive Plan and to act as a sounding board for various issues  
    impacting the future of the Northgate area.  Business and residential  
    property owner perspectives will be represented.  Simon will  
    participate in such group as an active member and will seek the  
    group's input and advice on mall development over time.  
  
    8.  VESTING OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
  
    The City agrees as follows:  
  
    The proposed development described in Section 6 of this Agreement  
    shall vest to the development standards in effect on the effective  
    date of the ordinance approving this Agreement.  The proposed  
    development shall not be vested against the application of development  
    standards that are imposed by virtue of state or federal pre-emption  
    of the City's regulatory authority.  As provided by RCW 36.70B.170  
    (4), the proposed development shall not vest against new development  
    regulations to the extent the new regulations are required by a  
    serious threat to public health and safety.  
  
    9.  DURATION OF VESTED RIGHTS  
  
    The vested rights established by this Agreement as applied to any  
    particular project merge into the permit approval for that project and  
    shall terminate as provided for such permit by the Land Use Code, SMC  
    23.76.032.  
  
    In the event that an application for MUP approval for a particular  
    project of the proposed development is not submitted to the Department  
    of Planning and Development (DPD) within ten (10) years of the date of  
    this Agreement, then the vested rights established by this Agreement  
    with respect to the particular project shall automatically terminate.  
    However, if by the end of the tenth year, certificates of occupancy  
    have been granted for 96,500 square feet or more of the proposed  
    development described in Subsection 6.1 and two thirds of the required  
    housing units as described in Subsection 6.3, the term of vested  
    rights granted under this Agreement shall be extended an additional  
    five years.  
  
    If Simon experiences significant delays in obtaining development  
    permit approvals due to appeals or litigation, Simon may propose and  
    the City Council will consider approval of amendments to this  
    Agreement to extend the duration of vested rights.  
  
    10.  RECORDING AND ASSIGNMENT  
  
      This Agreement shall be recorded with King County and is binding  
    upon the parties and their successors, as provided by RCW 36.70B.190.  
    Simon may sell or transfer all or a portion of the property subject to  
    this Agreement, and the sale or transfer shall not affect the validity  
    of this Agreement.  
  
    11.  DEFINITIONS  
  
    "Development standards" means the substantive requirements of the City  
    of Seattle's Land Use Code, SMC 23, including any design review  
    guidelines, Regulations for Environmentally Critical Areas, SMC 25.09,  
    including the City's critical areas map folio, substantive policies of  
    the City's SEPA ordinance, SMC 25.05, and the Landmark Preservation  
    ordinance, SMC 25.12, and the Stormwater, Drainage and Erosion Control  
    ordinance, SMC 22.802. It also includes the Seattle Comprehensive Plan  
    and the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan.  Development standards does  
    not mean or include procedural provisions of the aforementioned  
    ordinances, but does include procedural provisions, if any, of the  
    aforementioned plans.  
  
    12.  CONDITION PRECEDENT  
  
    A condition precedent to Simon's duty to perform under the terms of  
    this Agreement is the adoption of various Land Use Code amendments by  
    the City. In the event that the City Council does not adopt or the  
    Mayor vetoes the amendments to the Land Use Code contained in Exhibit  
    3 to this Agreement, and the veto is sustained, Simon will not be  
    required to perform the duties prescribed in this Agreement.  
  
      If the Council adopts and the Mayor approves amendments that are  
    different from those contained in Exhibit 3, then Simon may agree at  
    Simon's sole discretion to the amendments in writing, in which case  
    this Agreement shall have full force and effect, or Simon may  
    terminate this Agreement.  
  
    13.  MUTUAL OBLIGATIONS TO PERFORM  
  
      The parties agree that Simon's obligations to perform its duties as  
    outlined in Section 7 are conditioned on the City's satisfaction of  
    the Condition Precedent as outlined in Section 12.  
  
    14.  NOTICES  
  
      Official Notices to the City of Seattle shall be sent by certified  
    mail to:  Jackie Kirn, Senior Policy Advisor, 600 4th Avenue 6th  
    Floor, PO Box 94745, Seattle, WA  98124-4745.  Telephone: 206-684-  
    0269.  A copy of all Notices shall also be sent to the Seattle City  
    Attorney, 600 4th Avenue, Suite 1000, Seattle, WA 98104.  
  
      Official Notices to Simon shall be sent by certified mail to:  Simon  
    Property Group, 115 West Washington Street, Indianapolis, IN  46204  
    (Attention: Arthur W. Spellmeyer, III, Executive Vice President,  
    Development).  A copy of all Notices shall also be sent to Simon's  
    General Counsel at the same address.  
  
    15.  AMENDMENTS TO DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT  
  
      Unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this Agreement this  
    Agreement may be amended by written agreement between Simon and the  
    City.  Approval of amendments by the City shall be by ordinance.  
  
    16.  INTEGRATION  
  
      This Agreement represents the entire agreement of the parties with  
    respect to the subject matter hereof.  There are no other agreements,  
    oral or written, except as expressly set forth herein.  
  
    17.  COUNTERPARTS  
  
      This Agreement may be executed in counterparts with each counterpart  
    so executed deemed an original hereof.  
  
    Dated:  
    _______________________________  
    GREG NICKELS  
    Mayor of Seattle  
  
    SIMON:  
    SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, L.P.,  
    a Delaware limited partnership  
    By:  SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.,  
      a Delaware corporation  
      By:  _________________________  
      Its:  ________________________  
      Date:  _______________________  
  
    LIST OF EXHIBITS  
  
    Exhibit 1:  Development Agreement Site Plan  
    Exhibit 2:  South Lot Parcel B Purchase and Sale Agreement  
    Exhibit 3:  Land Use Code Amendments  
    Exhibit 4:  5th Avenue Entrance Conceptual Illustration  
  
    revised December 8, 2003.  
    ta  
  
    EXHIBIT 1 TO EXHIBIT A - Development Agreement Site Plan  
  
    EXHIBIT 2 TO EXHIBIT A:  PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT between  
    Seller:  Northgate Mall Partnership and Buyer:  The City of Seattle  
  
    Buyer, THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a first class city of the State of  
    Washington, and Seller, NORTHGATE MALL PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware general  
    partnership, hereby enter into this Purchase and Sale Agreement  
    ("Agreement") as of the Effective Date.  
  
    IN CONSIDERATION of the mutual covenants set forth herein, and other  
    good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of all of  
    which is hereby acknowledged, Seller agrees to sell the Real Property  
    to Buyer, and Buyer agrees to buy the Real Property from Seller, on  
    the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.  Accordingly,  
    the parties agree as follows:  
  
    1. DEFINED TERMS  
  
    The terms listed below shall have the following meanings throughout  
    this Agreement:  
  
    Seller:      Northgate Mall Partnership  
    Seller's Address:   c/o Simon Property Group  
    115 W. Washington Street  
    Indianapolis, Indiana  46204  
    Fax No. (317) 263-7038  
  
    Buyer:  The City of Seattle, a first class City of the State of  
    Washington  
    Buyer's Address:  Attn: Ron Perkerewicz  
    Seattle Public Utilities  
    Key Tower, Suite 4900  
    700 Fifth Ave  
    Seattle, WA 98104-5004  
  
    If by carrier for delivery:  
    Suite 300 Central Building  
    810 3rd Ave. Seattle, WA  
    Phone:  206-615-0741  
    Fax:  206-615-1215  
  
    Title Company:  Pacific Northwest Title Company of Washington, Inc.  
    Attn:  L. Diane Maxwell, Escrow Officer  
    215 Columbia St.  
    Seattle, WA 98104-1040  
    Phone:  206-343-1321  
    FAX:  206-343-4720  
  
    Real Property:  That certain land described in Exhibit A, believed to  
    contain approximately 2.7 acres, together with all rights and  
    interests appurtenant thereto, including, without limitation, any  
    water and mineral rights, development rights, air rights, easements  
    and rights-of-way.  
  
    Closing:    Is as defined in Section 5 of this Agreement.  
  
    Closing Date:  Shall be the date the Closing takes place.  Pursuant to  
    the Northgate Mall Development Agreement, Section 8.1 Conveyance of  
    the South Lot Parcel B, which document is incorporated herein by  
    reference, closing and title transfer shall occur 30 days after the  
    condition precedent in Section 13 has been satisfied, and after  
    recording of any plat or short plat that may be necessary.  
  
    Day:  A calendar day; provided, that if the last day for taking any  
    action hereunder is a Saturday, Sunday or Washington State-designated  
    holiday, the next succeeding day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or  
    Washington State-designated holiday shall be the deadline for taking  
    such action.  
  
    Effective Date:  The date upon which this Agreement has been fully  
    executed by Buyer and Seller, as evidenced by the last date appearing  
    under their respective signatures.  
  
    Environmental Law:  Any federal, state or local law, ordinance or  
    regulation pertaining or relating to health, industrial hygiene, waste  
    disposal, or the environment, including, without limitation: the  
    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act  
    of 1980 ("CERCLA"), as amended, 42 U.S.C. section 9601 et seq.; the  
    Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, Pub. L. 99-499  
    and 99-563; the Toxic Substances Control Act ("TSCA"), 15 U.S.C.  
    section 2601 et seq.; the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49  
    App. U.S.C. section 1802; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act  
    ("RCRA"), 42 U.S.C. section 6901 et seq.; the Occupational Safety and  
    Health Act of 1970 ("OSHA"), as amended, 29 U.S.C. section 651 et  
    seq.; the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. section 7401 et seq.;  
    the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. section  
    1251 et seq.; the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. section  
    201 et seq.; the Hazardous Waste Management Act, RCW Ch. 70.105; the  
    Model Toxics Control Act of the State of Washington ("MTCA"), RCW Ch.  
    70.105D; and any amendment to any such law or regulation adopted and  
    publications promulgated pursuant to all such laws.  
  
    Hazardous Material:  Any hazardous, or toxic substance, material or  
    waste,  including, but not limited to , those substances, materials  
    and wastes listed in the United States Department of Transportation  
    Hazardous Materials Table (49 C.F.R. section172.101) or by the United  
    States Environmental Protection Agency as hazardous substances (40  
    C.F.R.  pt. 302 and amendments thereto) or in the Washington Hazardous  
    Waste Management Act (Ch. 70.105D RCW) or the Model Toxics Control Act  
    (Chs. 70.105D RCW 82.21 RCW), petroleum products and their  
    derivatives, and such other substances, materials and wastes as become  
    regulated or subject to clean-up authority under any Environmental  
    Law.  
  
    2. EXHIBITS  
  
    The following exhibits are attached to and form a part of this  
    Agreement:  
  
        Exhibit A - Land Description  
        Exhibit B - Form of Limited Warranty Deed  
  
    3. CONDITION OF REAL PROPERTY  
  
    Buyer acknowledges that it has reviewed the Commitment for Title  
    Insurance issued by the Title Company under No. 524404 (the "Title  
    Report").  Title to the Real Property shall be conveyed to Buyer  
    subject only to Special Exception No. 1, and nondelinquent  
    installments of special assessments levied against the Real Property  
    as shown in the Title Report (the "Permitted Encumbrances"). All  
    Exceptions or Filings consisting of a financial encumbrance such as a  
    mortgage, deed of trust, or other debt security, or any attachment,  
    delinquent real estate tax, assessment for an improvement or  
    mechanic's or materialmen's lien outstanding against the Real Property  
    (a "Financial Encumbrance"), are hereby deemed a disapproved Exception  
    or Filing.  Seller hereby covenants to remove or cause to be satisfied  
    any Financial Encumbrance on or before the Closing Date.  
  
    4. CONVEYANCE OF TITLE  
  
    Seller shall convey the Real Property to Buyer by a limited warranty  
    deed, the form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit B (the "Deed")  
    conveying to Buyer title to the Real Property in fee simple, subject  
    only to the Permitted Encumbrances, and any other exceptions that  
    Buyer approves in writing (collectively hereinafter referred to as the  
    "Exceptions").  A condition precedent to Buyer's completing the  
    purchase of the Real Property shall be the willingness of the Title  
    Company to issue, upon payment of the Title Company's regularly  
    scheduled premium, an ALTA owner's extended coverage title insurance  
    policy in the amount of the Purchase Price, showing title to the Real  
    Property vested in Buyer in fee simple, subject only to the Exceptions  
    and the preprinted exceptions commonly contained in an owner's  
    extended policy.  
  
    5. CLOSING  
  
    A.  Closing Requirements  
  
    On the Closing Date, all matters to be performed under this Agreement  
    incident to the conveyance of the Real Property and the payment of the  
    Purchase Price (collectively, the "Closing") shall be performed  
    concurrently at the offices of the Title Company.  All documents to be  
    delivered at the Closing and all payments to be made shall be  
    delivered in a timely manner, in escrow, so as to allow the recording  
    of the Deed and other instruments as are required to be recorded to  
    effect the transfer and conveyance of the Real Property and the  
    delivery of all instruments and funds on or before the Closing Date.  
    Each party shall deliver appropriate escrow instructions to the Title  
    Company consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.  
  
    B.  Buyer's Conditions to Closing  
  
    It is a condition to Buyer's obligation to proceed to Closing that, as  
    of the Closing Date, (i) all of Seller's representations and  
    warranties hereunder are true and correct;  (ii) Seller has performed  
    all of its covenants hereunder; (iii) the Real Property is delivered  
    to Buyer at Closing free and clear of any occupants or rights to  
    possession; (iv) the Title Company is prepared to issue the Title  
    Policy to the Buyer; (v) Seller has delivered all other documents and  
    other deliveries required by this Agreement; (vi) Buyer has obtained  
    an environmental assessment of the Real Property and has notified the  
    Seller in writing that Buyer is satisfied that the subject property  
    does not contain any Hazardous Materials or environmental conditions  
    that would adversely affect or damage Buyer's intended use and/or  
    enjoyment of said property.  Buyer agrees to undertake such  
    environmental assessment and determine its satisfaction with the  
    condition of the Real Property with all reasonable diligence; (vii) a  
    plat or short plat creating the parcel of Real Property has been  
    recorded with the King County Recorder's office, if necessary; (viii)  
    this Agreement has been authorized by the Seattle City Council  
    pursuant to ordinance, which has been signed by the Mayor; and (ix)  
    all other conditions to Buyer's obligations to proceed to Closing that  
    are set forth in this Agreement have been satisfied.  
  
    C.  Seller's Conditions to Closing  
  
      It is a condition to Seller's obligation to proceed to Closing that,  
    as of the Closing Date, (i) all of Buyer's representations and  
    warranties hereunder are true and correct; (ii) Buyer has performed  
    all of its covenants hereunder; (iii) Buyer has delivered all  
    documents and other deliveries required by this Agreement, and (iv)  
    all other conditions to Seller's obligations to proceed to Closing  
    that are set forth in this Agreement have been satisfied.  
  
    6. DELIVERIES  
  
    A.  Seller's Deliveries at Closing  
  
    On or by the Closing Date, Seller shall deliver to the Title Company  
    the following documents and materials, all of which shall be in form  
    and substance reasonably acceptable to Buyer:  
  
    (i)  The duly executed and acknowledged Deed.  
  
    (ii)  Any instruments reasonably necessary to convey title in the  
    condition required by this Agreement, each of which instrument shall  
    be duly executed and, if necessary, acknowledged.  
  
    (iii)  A certificate duly executed by Seller acknowledging that as of  
    the Closing Date, all representations and warranties by Seller set  
    forth in this Agreement remain true and correct.  
  
    (iv)  A non-foreign certification, duly executed by Seller under  
    penalty of perjury, certifying that Seller is not a "foreign person"  
    as defined in or pursuant to Section 1445 (as may be amended) of the  
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 1445").  If Seller  
    shall fail or be unable to deliver the same, then Buyer shall have the  
    right to have such portion of the Purchase Price withheld by Title  
    Company in escrow as may be necessary, in the reasonable opinion of  
    the Title Company, to comply with Section 1445.  
  
        (v)  Such other documents as theTitle Company may reasonably  
    require to complete the Closing.  
  
    B.  Buyer's Deliveries at Closing  
  
        (i)  On or by the Closing Date Buyer shall deliver to the Title  
    Company any funds necessary to pay Buyer's share of closing costs and  
    prorations, as hereinafter set forth with immediately available funds.  
  
        (ii)  A certificate duly executed by Buyer acknowledging that as  
    of the Closing Date, all representations and warranties by Buyer set  
    forth in this Agreement remain true and correct.  
  
        (iii)  Such other documents as the Title Company may reasonably  
    require to complete the Closing.  
  
    7. CLOSING COSTS AND PRORATIONS  
  
    At the Closing, closing costs shall be paid and prorations made as  
    follows:  
  
    A.  Closing Costs  
  
    Buyer and Seller shall each pay their own attorneys' fees incurred in  
    connection with negotiating and consummating the transactions  
    contemplated herein. Buyer shall pay for and provide a survey, and  
    shall pay all costs relating to any necessary platting of the Real  
    Property.  Buyer shall obtain and pay all premiums, costs and fees of  
    any nature whatsoever for an owner's policy of title insurance. Buyer  
    shall pay the escrow fees charged by the closing agent,  all transfer  
    or assumption fees, recording fees and the excise tax.  
  
    B.  Prorations  
  
    All prorations shall be made as of 12:01 a.m. on the Closing Date so  
    that for purposes of prorations, Buyer shall be deemed in ownership of  
    the Real Property throughout such day.  Unless otherwise specified  
    herein, all Taxes shall be prorated on an accrual basis.  As used  
    herein, "Taxes" include all real property taxes and similar charges of  
    any kind.  All delinquent Taxes (including penalties thereon) shall be  
    paid at Closing out of Seller's funds.  Any non-delinquent Taxes shall  
    be prorated based on the current tax bill and Buyer shall pay the  
    fraction thereof that represents the number of days remaining in the  
    applicable fiscal year (including the Closing Date) divided by the  
    number of days in such fiscal year; if such tax bill has not yet been  
    received by Seller, the proration shall be based on one hundred  
    percent (100%) of the previous year's tax bill, and such adjustment  
    shall be final.  All assessments levied against the Real Property for  
    improvements that are payable in installments shall be prorated as to  
    the current installment, and Buyer shall acquire the Real Property  
    subject to the lien of future installments as they become due.  Seller  
    shall pay any delinquent assessment together with any penalties and  
    interest thereon on or before the Closing Date.  
  
    8. SELLER'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES  
  
    Seller hereby makes the following representations and warranties to  
    Buyer as of the Effective Date:  
  
    A.  Due Authorization  
  
    Seller has full power to execute, deliver and carry out the terms and  
    provisions of this Agreement and has taken all necessary action to  
    authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement.  
    The individual executing this Agreement on behalf of Seller has the  
    authority to bind Seller to the terms and conditions of this  
    Agreement.  
  
    B.  Enforceability  
  
    This Agreement and all documents required hereby to be executed by  
    Seller, when so executed, shall be legal, valid, and binding  
    obligations of Seller enforceable against Seller in accordance with  
    their respective terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency,  
    reorganization, moratorium, and other similar laws affecting rights of  
    creditors generally and, as to enforceability, the general principles  
    of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding  
    in equity or at law).  
  
    9. BUYER'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES  
  
    Buyer hereby makes the following representations and warranties to  
    Seller as of the Effective Date and as of the Closing Date:  
  
    A.  Due Authorization  
  
    Buyer has full power to execute, deliver and carry out the terms and  
    provisions of this Agreement and has taken all necessary action to  
    authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement.  
    The individual executing this Agreement on behalf of Buyer has the  
    authority to bind Buyer to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  
  
    B.  Enforceability  
  
    This Agreement and all documents required hereby to be executed by  
    Buyer, when so executed, shall be legal, valid, and binding  
    obligations of Buyer, enforceable against Buyer in accordance with  
    their respective terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency,  
    reorganization, moratorium, and other similar laws affecting the  
    rights of creditors generally and, as to enforceability, to general  
    principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a  
    proceeding in equity or at law).  
  
    C.  Environmental Matters  
  
    Buyer acknowledges that it is purchasing the Real Property based on  
    its own investigation and inquiry and has not received and is not  
    relying on any representation or warranty of Seller as to the physical  
    condition of the Real Property and is agreeing to accept and purchase  
    the Real Property in such condition "as is, with all faults."  
    Notwithstanding the forgoing, it shall be a condition precedent to  
    Buyer's obligation to purchase the Real Property that said property  
    does not contain any Hazardous Materials that would adversely affect  
    Buyer's use and enjoyment of the Real Property.  This Section shall  
    not be construed as releasing Seller from any liability it would  
    otherwise have under any applicable environmental laws and Buyer does  
    not assume such liability.  
  
    10. ACTIONS AFTER THE EFFECTIVE DATE  
  
    The parties covenant to do the following from the Effective Date  
    through the Closing Date.  
  
    A.  Title  
  
    Seller shall not make or permit any change to the Property or to the  
    condition of title to the Real Property without Buyer's prior written  
    consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.  
  
    B.  Maintenance and Operation of Property  
  
    Seller shall maintain and operate the Property in substantially its  
    current condition.  Seller shall not make any material alterations to  
    or upon the Real Property without Buyer's prior written consent, which  
    consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.  
  
    C.  Representations and Warranties  
  
    Each party shall use its best efforts to prevent any act or omission  
    that would render any of its representations and warranties herein  
    untrue or misleading on or prior to the Closing Date, and shall  
    immediately notify the other party in writing if any such act or  
    omission occurs.  
  
    D.  Removal of Personal Property  
  
    Seller shall retain ownership of and have the obligation to remove all  
    readily moveable personal property, if any, from the Real Property by  
    the Closing Date.  Any personal property not removed by the Closing  
    Date shall be deemed abandoned and Buyer may, at its option and at  
    Seller's expense, dispose of all items that are required to be removed  
    by Seller without liability to Seller.  Seller shall ensure that any  
    such removal does not create a hazard to members of the public  
    exercising ordinary care for their own safety.  
  
    E.  Insurance  
  
    Seller shall secure and maintain in full force and effect at no  
    expense to Buyer and until Closing has occurred, fire and extended  
    coverage, vandalism and malicious mischief, and special extended  
    coverage insurance by one or more responsible insurance companies,  
    providing coverage in amounts acceptable to Seller in its sole  
    discretion.  
  
    11. DAMAGE TO PROPERTY/TAKINGS  
  
    If the Real Property or any substantial, material part thereof (i) is  
    materially damaged by casualty, or (ii) is taken or is the subject of  
    a notice of taking by eminent domain prior to the Closing Date, Seller  
    shall promptly notify Buyer, whereupon Buyer may give Seller written  
    notice that it elects to (a) terminate this Agreement, in which event  
    the parties shall have no further obligations hereunder (except for  
    Buyer's indemnification obligations); or (b) proceed to Closing, in  
    which event Seller shall assign to Buyer all insurance proceeds  
    attributable to the Real Property arising from the casualty together  
    with a credit against the Purchase Price equal to the deductible  
    amount and/or coinsurance amount under the applicable insurance  
    policy, or pay over and assign to Buyer all awards recovered or  
    recoverable on account of such taking, as the case may be.  If Buyer  
    elects to proceed under this Section 11, Seller shall not compromise,  
    settle, or adjust any claims to such proceeds, or awards without  
    Buyer's prior written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably  
    withheld.  
  
    12. SURVIVAL OF TERMS  
  
    All representations, warranties and indemnification commitments by the  
    respective parties contained herein are intended to and shall remain  
    true and correct as of the Closing, shall be deemed to be material,  
    and shall not be merged into the Deed, and shall survive the delivery  
    of the Deed and transfer of title.  
  
    13. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS  
  
    The terms, covenants and conditions herein contained shall be binding  
    upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the  
    parties hereto.  Buyer may not assign Buyer's rights and obligations  
    hereunder.  
  
    14. DEFAULTS & REMEDIES  
  
    If Seller wrongfully fails to convey the Real Property to Buyer, Buyer  
    shall have all remedies available to it at law or in equity,  
    including, without limitation, the right to seek specific performance.  
  
    15. ATTORNEYS' FEES  
  
    If there is any dispute between the parties regarding their rights and  
    obligations under this Agreement (whether or not litigation is  
    involved), each party shall be responsible for its own attorneys' fees  
    and court costs.  
  
    16. NOTICES  
  
    All notices required or permitted to be given pursuant to the terms  
    hereof shall be in writing and shall be delivered either by hand  
    delivery; by nationally recognized private overnight delivery service;  
    by deposit in the United States mail, registered or certified mail,  
    postage prepaid; or by electronic facsimile transfer, but if delivered  
    by electronic facsimile transfer, a hard copy of such notice shall  
    also be delivered on or before the next Day by hand delivery or by  
    such overnight delivery service.  All notices shall be addressed to  
    Seller at Seller's Address (or in the case of an electronic facsimile  
    transfer, to Seller's facsimile copier number), and to Buyer at  
    Buyer's Address (or in the case of an electronic facsimile transfer,  
    to Buyer's facsimile copier number).  The addresses (and electronic  
    facsimile transfer numbers) set forth in Section 1 may be changed by  
    written notice to the other party as provided herein.  Notices shall  
    be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of actual receipt, as  
    evidenced by the deliverer's affidavit, the recipient's acknowledgment  
    of receipt, or the overnight delivery service's receipt; and in the  
    event of attempted delivery during normal business hours at the proper  
    address by an agent of a party or by the overnight delivery service or  
    the U.S. Postal Service but refused acceptance, shall be deemed to  
    have been given upon attempted delivery, as evidenced by an affidavit  
    of inability to deliver stating the time, date, place and manner in  
    which such delivery was attempted and the manner in which such  
    delivery was refused.  
  
    17. CONSTRUCTION OF DOCUMENT  
  
    In construing this document, all headings and titles are for the  
    convenience of the parties only and shall not be considered a part of  
    this Agreement.  Whenever required by the context, the singular shall  
    include the plural and the masculine shall include the feminine and  
    vice versa.  This Agreement shall not be construed as if prepared by  
    one of the parties, but rather according to its fair meaning as a  
    whole, as if both parties had prepared it.  All exhibits attached  
    hereto are incorporated in this Agreement by reference thereto.  
  
    18. TIME  
  
    Time is of the essence of every provision herein contained.  
  
    19. FORCE MAJEURE  
  
    If either party is unable to perform one or more of its obligations  
    under this Agreement, except for an obligation to pay any funds due  
    hereunder, or to enjoy any of its benefits because of natural disaster  
    or actions or decrees of governmental bodies (hereinafter referred to  
    as a "Force Majeure Event" or "Event"), the party who has been so  
    affected immediately shall give notice to the other party and shall do  
    everything possible to resume performance.  Upon receipt of such  
    notice, the affected party shall be excused from such performance as  
    is affected by the Force Majeure Event for the period of such Event.  
    If the period of non-performance exceeds fifteen (15) days from the  
    receipt of notice of the Force Majeure Event, the party whose ability  
    to perform has not been so affected may terminate this Agreement by  
    giving written notice.  If such Event shall affect the Closing Date,  
    the Closing Date shall automatically be extended for a period equal to  
    the duration of such Event.  
  
    20. APPLICABLE LAW  
  
    The laws of the State of Washington shall govern this Agreement.  
  
    21. NO ORAL MODIFICATION OR WAIVER  
  
    This Agreement may not be changed or amended orally, but only by an  
    agreement in writing.  No waiver shall be effective hereunder unless  
    given in writing, and waiver shall not be inferred from any conduct of  
    either party.  
  
    22. BROKERAGE COMMISSION  
  
    Buyer and Seller warrant to each other that no broker or finder can  
    properly claim a right to a commission or finder's fee based upon  
    contacts between the claimant and the warranting party with respect to  
    the other party or the Real Property.  Seller and Buyer shall  
    indemnify, defend and hold the other party harmless from and against  
    any loss, cost or expense, including, but not limited to, attorneys  
    fees and court costs, resulting from any claim for a fee or commission  
    by any broker or finder in connection with the Real Property and this  
    Agreement resulting from the indemnifying party's actions.  
  
    23.  ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS  
  
    Seller and Buyer make no agreement herein with respect to, and retain  
    all of their respective rights and responsibilities under all  
    applicable statutes and other law with respect to, the allocation of  
    liability arising from or relating to Hazardous Materials on, in,  
    under, or migrating, or having migrated, onto or off of the Real  
    Property.  Either party hereto that seeks an allocation of any such  
    liability against the other party shall make a reasonable attempt to  
    join in any lawsuit any past or present tenant(s) of Buyer and Seller  
    known to the party bringing the lawsuit to be a potentially  
    responsible party under applicable law in addition to bringing a  
    lawsuit against the other party.  
  
    24.  COUNTERPARTS  
  
    This Agreement may be executed in counterparts with each counterpart  
    so executed deemed an original hereof.  
  
    25.  ENTIRE AGREEMENT  
  
    This Agreement contains all of the covenants, conditions and  
    agreements between the parties and shall supersede all prior  
    correspondence, agreements and understandings, both verbal and  
    written, between the parties or their respective representatives.  The  
    parties intend that this Agreement constitutes the complete and  
    exclusive statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence may be  
    introduced in any proceeding involving this Agreement.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has executed one or  
    more copies of this Agreement by having its authorized representative  
    affix his or her signature in the appropriate space below as of the  
    date set forth under said signature.  
  
    SELLER:                                       BUYER:  
    NORTHGATE MALL PARTNERSHIP                    THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
    By:  SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, L.P,  
    a Delaware limited partnership  
    By:  SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.,  
    a Delaware corporation, General Partner  
    Printed Name:                                 Printed Name:  
  
    Date: ______________________  
    ta  
  
    EXHIBIT A  
    LEGAL DESCRIPTION  
  
    That portion of the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of the  
    northwest quarter of Section 32, Township 26 North, Range 4 East,  
    W.M., in King County, Washington described as follows:  
  
    Commencing at the intersection of the west line of said subdivision  
    and the south line of the north 30.00 feet thereof, said south line  
    being the south margin of northeast 103rd Street, thence south 88  
    degrees 15'44" east 446.63 feet along said south margin to the true  
    point of beginning;  
  
    thence south 01 degrees 44'16" west 461.07 feet;  
  
    thence south 28 degrees 12'43" west 154.29 feet to the north line of  
    the south 33.00 feet of said subdivision, said north line being the  
    north margin of Northeast 100th Street;  
  
    thence south 88 degrees 16'22" east 265.35 feet along said north  
    margin to the west line of the east 30.00 feet of said subdivision,  
    said west line being the west margin of 5th Avenue Northeast;  
  
    thence north 00 degrees 40'03" east 278.09 feet along said west margin  
    to an angle point therein;  
  
    thence along said west margin the following three courses:  
  
    thence north 89 degrees 19'57" west 4.50 feet;  
  
    thence north 00 degrees 40'03" east 298.66 feet to the beginning of a  
    curve concave southwesterly having a radius of 23.00 feet;  
  
    thence northerly, northwesterly and westerly 35.70 feet along said  
    curve through a central angle of 88 degrees 55'47" to a point of  
    tangency on said south margin of Northeast 103rd Street;  
  
    thence north 88 degrees 15'44" west 158.30 feet along said south  
    margin to the true point of beginning.  
  
    The parcel described above contains 117,617 square feet (2.700 acres),  
    more or less.  
  
    Situated in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington.  
  
    ta  
  
    EXHIBIT B  
    FORM OF LIMITED WARRANTY DEED  
  
    After Recording  
    Return Document to:  
    Attn: Ron Perkerewicz  
    Seattle Public Utilities  
    Key Tower, Suite 4900  
    700 Fifth Ave  
    Seattle, WA 98104-5004  
  
    This cover page is attached for recording purposes and is not a part  
    of the instrument.  
  
    Document Title: LIMITED WARRANTY DEED  
    Reference number of related documents:  NOT APPLICABLE  
  
    Grantor:  NORTHGATE MALL PARTNERSHIP  
    Grantee:  THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    Legal Description:  
  
    1.  Abbreviated form: NE NW 32-26-04, in King County, Washington  
  
      2.  Complete legal description is on Exhibit A of document  
  
    Tax Parcel No.  _______________  
  
    EXHIBIT 3 - LAND USE CODE AMENDMENTS  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Sections  
    23.71.004, 23.71.008, 23.71.014, 23.71.020, 23.71.038, 23.71.044,  
    23.76.004 (Exhibit A), 23.76.006 and 23.76.026; and repealing Sections  
    23.71.024, 23.71.026, 23.71.028, and 23.71.029; all relating to the  
    Northgate Overlay District.  
  
    WHEREAS, GDP elements are intended to help promote pedestrian  
    circulation by establishing a functional and attractive pedestrian  
    network, efficient vehicle circulation that minimizes disruption to  
    pedestrian circulation, adequate amenities such as landscaping and  
    open space to encourage use of the pedestrian network, development  
    compatible with adjacent areas, and conditions that support increased  
    use of transit or other alternatives to single-occupant vehicles; and  
  
    WHEREAS, existing regulatory requirements, including the development  
    standards in the Northgate Overlay District and the Northgate Area  
    Design Guidelines, can be combined with optional mechanisms such as  
    development agreements or planned actions to replace and better  
    accomplish the goals of the GDP requirements; NOW THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Section 23.71.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was  
    last amended by Ordinance 120117, is amended by replacing Map A with a  
    new Map A adding Northeast 103rd Street (from 1st Avenue NE to 5th  
    Avenue NE), 100th Street (from 1st Avenue NE to 5th Avenue NE) and 5th  
    Avenue NE (from NE 105th Street to NE 100th Street) as Special  
    Landscaped Arterials as follows:  
  
    Section 2.  Section 23.71.008 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was  
    last amended by Ordinance 118114, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.71.008  Development along major pedestrian streets.  
  
    * * *  
  
    F.  Street Facade Standards  
  
    1.  Transparency Requirements.  
  
    a.  Sixty (60) percent of the width of the facade of a structure  
    along the major pedestrian street shall be transparent. Clear or  
    lightly tinted glass, with comparable visibility into the structure as  
    clear glass, in windows, doors and display windows, which must be a  
    minimum of four (4) feet deep, shall be considered transparent.  
    Transparent areas shall allow unobstructed views into the  
    structure or into display windows, which must be a minimum of four  
    (4) feet deep, from the outside.  
  
    b.  A facade shall be considered transparent if it has clear or  
    slightly tinted glass in windows, doors or display windows.  
  
    c.  Transparent areas shall allow views into the structure or into  
    display windows from the outside.  
  
    2.  Blank Facades.  
  
    a.  Any portion of a facade which is not transparent shall be  
    considered to be a blank facade.  
  
    b.  Blank facade segments shall not exceed thirty (30) feet along the  
    major pedestrian street front.  
  
    c.  Blank facade segments which are separated by transparent areas of  
    at least two (2) feet in width shall be considered separate facade  
    segments for the purposes of this section.  
  
    3.  Transparent and blank facade standards apply to the area of a  
    facade between two (2) feet and eight (8) feet above the sidewalk.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 3.  Section 23.71.014 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC),  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116795, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    23.71.014  Open Space  
  
    A.  Quantity of Open Space.  
  
    1.  In all Commercial zones with a permitted height limit of forty  
    (40) feet or less, a minimum of ten (10) percent of lot area or, at  
    the applicant's option, proposed gross floor area, shall be  
    provided as landscaped or usable open space for all commercial and  
    mixed use substantial development. A minimum of one-half (1/2) of the  
    required open space shall be landscaped open space and a minimum of  
    one-third (1/3) of the required open space shall be usable open space.  
    The remainder shall be either landscaped or usable open space or may  
    be provided in accordance with subsection A8 of this section.  
  
    2.  In all Commercial zones with a permitted height limit greater than  
    forty (40) feet, a minimum of fifteen (15) percent of lot area or,  
    at the applicant's option, proposed gross floor area, shall be  
    provided as landscaped or usable open space for all commercial and  
    mixed use substantial development. A minimum of one-third (1/3) of the  
    required open space shall be landscaped open space and a minimum of  
    one-fifth (1/5) of the required open space shall be usable open space.  
    The remainder shall be either landscaped or usable open space or may  
    be provided in accordance with subsection A8 of this section.  
  
    3.  Open space may be provided as interior or exterior open space  
    according to the standards provided in subsections  23.71.014  B and  
    C.  Interior open space may be used to satisfy up to twenty (20)  
    percent of the open space requirement.  
  
    4.  Reductions to Required Open Space. Required open space may be  
    reduced if any of the following open space alternatives are provided:  
  
    a.  Interior public meeting space or space accommodating a public  
    library, either of which shall be free to the public and credited at  
    two (2) times their actual area;  
  
    b.  An on-site town square, urban plaza, active park, or passive park  
    which meets the minimum size requirements prescribed in Table  
    23.71.014 A and which is consistent with the standards for such  
    features contained in subsection 23.71.014 C.  Such space shall be  
    credited towards the open space requirement at 1.5 times the actual  
    lot area occupied by such space.  
  
    5.  Above-ground open space in the form of a publicly accessible  
    terrace may satisfy up to thirty (30) percent of total required open  
    space. Due to the more limited public access to such areas, such  
    above-ground open space shall be credited at seventy-five (75) percent  
    of actual area provided. Above-ground open space in combination with  
    interior open space shall not exceed fifty (50) percent of the total  
    area required for open space.  
  
    6.  In no case shall required landscaped open space be reduced to   
    less than the minimum percentages for landscaped open space required  
    in (A)(1) and (A) (2) of this section. five (5) percent of lot  
    area.  Required landscaping of surface parking areas, which may  
    include perimeter screening, may count towards the landscaped open  
    space requirement up to the minimum percentages required in (A)(1)  
    and (A) (2) of this section. to a maximum of five (5) percent of  
    total lot area.  Perimeter screening of a surface parking area may  
    count towards the landscaped open space requirement in excess of five  
    (5) percent.  
  
    7.  When an owner proposes substantial development on lots forty  
    thousand (40,000) square feet or less and adjacent to a major  
    pedestrian street as designated in Section  23.71.008, the Director  
    may reduce the total amount of required open space if the owner  
    provides open space on the portion of the site abutting the major  
    pedestrian street. The reduction does not apply to open space  
    consisting of landscaping required for surface parking areas,  
    screening, or to improvements provided within the street right-of-way.  
  
    8.  Northgate Open Space Fund.  
  
    a.  In lieu of providing the remainder of open space, as defined in  
    subsections A1 and A2 of this section, an owner may make a payment to  
    the Northgate Area Open Space fund, if such a fund is established by  
    the City Council. The payment and use thereof shall be consistent  
    with RCW 82.02.020.  
  
    b.  An in-lieu of payment shall equal the assessed value of the land  
    and improvements which would otherwise have been provided as open  
    space.  
  
    c.  Funds received from properties within the Northgate Core sub-area  
    as shown on Map A, shall be applied to open space acquisition or  
    improvements in the Northgate Core sub-area. Funds received from  
    properties outside of the Northgate Core sub-area shall be applied to  
    open space acquisition or improvements within one-half (1/2) mile of  
    contributing sites.  
  
    * * *  
  
    D.  Reduction of Open Space Deficit. When substantial development  
    is proposed for a site, the open space deficit for the entire site  
    must be eliminated, provided that for sites subject to the General  
    Development Plan provisions of Section  23.71.020, the deficit need  
    not be eliminated but shall be reduced by an amount equal to fifty  
    percent (50%) of the footprint of the substantial development together  
    with fifty percent (50%) of the total footprint of any new parking  
    area provided to meet the demand of the substantial development,  
    together with fifty percent (50%) of any replacement parking provided.  
  
  
    Section 4.  Section 23.71.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was  
    last amended by Ordinance 116795, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.71.020  General Development Plan requirement   
    Development Agreements.  
  
     A.  On sites of six (6) acres or more the owner shall submit and  
    obtain approval of a General Development Plan when one (1) or more of  
    the conditions identified in subsection C of this section is met.  
  
    Development Agreements may be proposed for development within the  
    Northgate Overlay District pursuant to RCW 36.70B.  In determining  
    whether to approve a Development Agreement, the City Council shall  
    consider the extent to which the proposed development or  
    redevelopment:  
  
    a.  Contributes toward meeting the Northgate Urban Center housing  
    targets;  
  
  
    b.  Coordinates approaches to transportation planning and traffic  
    analysis with surrounding properties and the City, with the goal of  
    reducing use of single-occupant vehicles and reducing or minimizing  
    pedestrian and vehicular conflicts and other potential negative  
    traffic impacts on neighborhoods;  
  
  
    c.  Proposes improvements to the street level environment and  
    circulation for pedestrians, including coordination with area-wide  
    pedestrian circulation and open space plans such as the 5th Avenue  
    Streetscape Design Plan;  
  
  
    d.  Includes natural drainage strategies such as those described in  
    the Thornton Creek Five-Year Action Agenda and "Refining Our Choices"  
    for Northgate; and  
  
  
    e.  Incorporates sustainable design and green building practices in  
    the proposed development.  
  
    B.  For the purposes of this section a "site" is all contiguous  
    parcels of property, including parcels separated only by rights-of-  
    way, which are under common ownership, or under the ownership of  
    several individuals or entities who have agreed to common management  
    of all or a portion of the parcels.  
  
    C.  A General Development Plan shall be prepared when one (1) or  
    more of the following occurs:  
  
    1.  Development of more than four thousand (4,000) square feet of  
    commercial floor area, or redevelopment of more than four thousand  
    (4,000) square feet of commercial floor area, if the redevelopment  
    includes a change of use; and/or  
  
  
    2.  Creation of parking facilities for over forty (40) vehicle spaces;  
    and/or  
  
  
    3.  Rezone applications; and/ or  
  
  
    4.  Conditional use applications; and/or  
  
  
    5.Requests for variance(s) from the requirements of this chapter.  
  
  
    D.  The General Development Plan shall be reviewed by the Director as  
    a Type II master use permit decision, as provided in Chapter 23.76,  
    Procedures For Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions.  
  
  
    E.  A General Development Plan is not required for that portion of a  
    site for which a Major Institution Master Plan is required pursuant to  
    Chapter 23.69.  
  
    Section 5.  Section 23.71.024 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was  
    last amended by Ordinance 116795, is repealed.  
  
    Section 6.  Section 23.71.026 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was  
    last amended by Ordinance 116795, is repealed.  
  
    Section 7.  Section 23.71.028 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was  
    last amended by Ordinance 119239, is repealed.  
  
    Section 8.  SMC 23.71.029 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was  
    last amended by Ordinance 116795, is repealed.  
  
    Section 9.  SMC 23.71.038 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was  
    last amended by Ordinance 118414, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.71.038 Standards for mixed use development in commercial zones  
    within the Northgate Overlay District.  
  
    Residential and nonresidential uses in a mixed use development in a  
    commercial zone shall meet the requirements of Section 23.47.008 to  
    qualify as a mixed use development. The minimum standards of  
    Section 23.47.008 may vary on sites subject to the requirements for  
    General Development Plans as provided in Section 23.71.026.  
  
    Section 10.  SMC 23.71.044 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was  
    last amended by Ordinance 116795, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.71.044 Standards for single-purpose residential development in  
    Commercial zones within the Northgate Overlay District.  
  
    * * *  
  
    B.  Single-purpose residential structures are prohibited in all  
    commercial zones with a height limit of eighty-five (85) feet or  
    greater. , except as provided in Section 23.71.026 B for  
    phased mixed use development under a General Development Plan.  
  
    Section 11.  Exhibit 23.76.004A of Section 23.76.004 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 119974, is amended  
    as follows:  
  
                            DIRECTOR'S AND HEARING EXAMINER'S  
                            DECISIONS REQUIRING MASTER USE PERMITS  
  
    TYPE I                                Type II                     Type III  
    Director's Decision                   Director's Decision         Hearing Examiner's  
    (No Administrative Appeal)            (Appealable to              Decision  
    Hearing Examiner*)                    (No Administrative          Appeal)  
  
    Compliance with                       Temporary uses, more        Subdivisions  
       development standards                 than four weeks          (preliminary plats)  
    Uses permitted outright               Variances  
    Temporary uses, four                  Administrative  
       weeks or less                         conditional uses  
    Certain street uses                 Shoreline decisions  
    Lot boundary adjustments               (*appealable to Shorelines  
    Modifications of features              Hearings Board along with  
       bonused under Title 24              all related environmental  
    Determinations of                      appeals)  
       significance (EIS required)      Short subdivisions  
       except for determinations        Special exceptions  
       of significance based            Design review  
       solely on historic and           Northgate General  
       cultural preservation               Development Plans  
    Temporary uses, twelve              Light rail transit  
       months or less, for                 facilities  
       relocation of police and         The following  
       fire protection                     environmental  
    Exemptions from                        determinations:  
       right-of-way improvement              1. Determination of  
       requirements                             nonsignificance (EIS not  
    Special accommodation                       required)  
    Reasonable accommodation                 2. Determination of final  
    Minor amendment to a                        EIS adequacy  
       Major Phased Development              3. Determinations of  
       Permit                                   significance based solely  
                                                on historic and cultural  
                                                preservation  
                                             4. A decision by the  
                                                Director to approve,  
                                                condition or deny a  
                                                project based on SEPA  
                                                Policies  
                                             5. A decision by the  
                                                Director that a project is  
                                                consistent with a Planned  
                                                Action Ordinance and EIS  
                                                (no threshold  
                                                determination or EIS  
                                                required)  
                                        Major Phased Development  
  
    COUNCIL LAND USE DECISIONS  
  
                   TYPE IV                                  TYPE V  
              (Quasi -Judicial)                        (Legislative)  
  
    Land use map amendments (rezones)        Land Use Code text amendments  
    Public project approvals                 Rezones to implement new City  
    Major Institution master plans              Policies  
    Council conditional uses                 Concept approval for City  
       facilities  
    Downtown planned community               Major Institution designations  
       developments                          Waive or modify development  
                                                standards for City facilities  
                                             Planned Action Ordinance  
  
    Section 12.  Section 23.76.006 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC),  
    which was last amended by Ordinance 120611, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.76.006  Master Use Permits required.  
  
    * * *  
  
    C.  The following are Type II decisions:  
  
    1.  The following procedural environmental decisions for Master Use  
    Permits and for building, demolition, grading and other construction  
    permits are subject to appeal to the Hearing Examiner and are not  
    subject to further appeal to the City Council (supplemental procedures  
    for environmental review are established in SMC Chapter 25.05,  
    Environmental Policies and Procedures):  
  
    a.  Determination of Nonsignificance (DNSs), including mitigated DNSs;  
  
    b.  Determination that a final environmental impact statement (EIS) is  
    adequate; and  
  
    c.  Determination of Significance based solely on historic and  
    cultural preservation.  
  
    2.  The following decisions, including any integrated decisions to  
    approve, condition or deny based on SEPA policies, are subject to  
    appeal to the Hearing Examiner (except shoreline decisions and related  
    environmental determinations which are appealable to the Shorelines  
    Hearings Board):  
  
    a.  Establishment or change of use for temporary uses more than four  
    (4) weeks not otherwise permitted in the zone or not meeting  
    development standards, including the establishment of temporary uses  
    and facilities to construct a light rail transit system for so long as  
    is necessary to construct the system as provided in Section  
    23.42.040E, and excepting temporary relocation of police and fire  
    stations for twelve (12) months or less;  
  
    b.  Short subdivisions;  
  
    c.  Variances; provided that, variances sought as part of a Type IV  
    decision may be granted by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036;  
  
    d.  Special exceptions; provided that, special exceptions sought as  
    part of a Type IV decision may be granted by the Council pursuant to  
    Section 23.76.036;  
  
    e.  Design review;  
  
    f.  Administrative conditional uses; provided that, administrative  
    conditional uses sought as part of a Type IV decision may be approved  
    by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036;  
  
    g.  The following shoreline decisions (supplemental procedures for  
    shoreline decisions are established in Chapter 23.60):  
  
    (1)  Shoreline substantial development permits,  
  
    (2)  Shoreline variances,  
  
    (3)  Shoreline conditional uses;  
  
    h.  Northgate General Development Plan;  
  
    h. i  Major Phased Development;  
  
    i. j.  Determination of project consistency with a  
    planned action ordinance and EIS; and  
  
    j. k.  Establishment of light rail transit facilities  
    necessary to operate and maintain a light rail transit system, in  
    accordance with the provisions of Section 23.80.004.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 13.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be  
    separate and severable.  The invalidity of any particular provisions  
    shall not affect the validity of any other provision.  
  
    Section 14.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 20__,  
    and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _______________, 20__.  
    ___________________________________  
    President ___________ of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20__.  
    ___________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20__  
    ___________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    12/8/03  
    V #15  
    ta  
  
    EXHIBIT 4 - 5TH AVENUE ENTRANCE CONCEPTUAL ILLUSTRATION  
