* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114563**   
**Ordinance Number: 121159**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the enforcement of federal immigration laws and correcting inadvertent editing errors in Ordinance 121063 in connection therewith.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 19, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Drago, Licata)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 27, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 27, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 12, 2003   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Arts and Civil Rights   
**Sponsor:** LICATA   
  
**Index Terms:** CITIZENSHIP, CIVIL-RIGHTS, CITY-EMPLOYEES, POLICE-DEPARTMENT, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 121063  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the enforcement of federal immigration laws  
    and correcting inadvertent editing errors in Ordinance 121063 in  
    connection therewith.  
  
    WHEREAS, on January 27, 2003, the Seattle City Council passed  
    Ordinance 121063 concerning inquiries by Seattle City officers and  
    employees into immigration status, and activities designed to  
    ascertain such status; and amending Seattle Municipal Code 4.18 in  
    connection therewith; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 121063 was signed by the Mayor on February 5, 2003;  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, due to inadvertent editing errors, the amendments that  
    Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance 121063 purported to make to Seattle  
    Municipal Code Sections 4.18.020 and 4.18.030, respectively, were not  
    shown in proper "strike-out and underline" fashion ; and  
  
    WEREAS, due to a further inadvertent editing error, Section 5 of  
    Ordinance 121063 did not specifically state that it was to be made a  
    new section of Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 4.18; and  
  
    WHEREAS, The City wishes to correct these inadvertent editing errors  
    in order to ensure the proper codification of Sections 2, 3 and 5 of  
    Ordinance 121063.  
  
    NOW THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.18.020, as enacted by  
    Ordinance 113192, is  amended as follows:  
  
    4.18.020 Mayor reports to Council.  
  
    The Mayor shall report to the City Council and the people on a   
    quarterly )) yearly basis  , beginning thirty (30) days  
    from November 4, 1986, as to the actions taken and being taken in  
    support of the ordinance codified in this chapter and  
    Initiative 30.  
  
    Section 2.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.18.030, as enacted by  
    Ordinance 113192, is amended as follows:  
  
    4.18.030 City Attorney enforcement duties.  
  
    Consistent with and subject to Article XIII of the City Charter and  
    the Code of Professional Responsibility, the City Attorney is  
    requested to defend every action brought to declare invalid any  
    section of Initiative 30 and the ordinance codified in this  
    chapter, and maintain actions enforcing provisions of said  
    Initiative 30 and this chapter.  
  
    Section 3.  Section 5 of Ordinance 121063 shall constitute a new  
    section 4.18.040 to Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 4.18 as follows:  
  
      4.18.040  Liability  
  
    Nothing in this chapter is intended to create or form the basis for  
    Liability, on the part of the City, or its officers, employees, or  
    agents.  
  
    Section 4.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _________________, 2003.  
  
              _____________________________________  
  
              President of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2003.  
  
              ___________________________________________  
  
                Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2003.  
  
              ___________________________________________  
  
                               City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    TI:JJ  
  
    02/05/03  
  
    ImmigrationOrdCorrection2-06-03.doc  
  
     (Ver. 1 )  
