* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114513**   
**Ordinance Number: 121118**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to Business License Fees, amending Subsection 5.55.030A of the Seattle Municipal Code to decrease the business license fee surcharge for business activity begun after June 30.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 7, 2003   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: McIver, Pageler, Wills)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 17, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 31, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** LICENSES, FEES, BUSINESS-ENTERPRISES  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114513.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114513  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to Business License Fees, amending Subsection  
    5.55.030A of the Seattle Municipal Code to decrease the business  
    license fee surcharge for business activity begun after June 30.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1. Seattle Municipal Code Subsection A of Section 5.55.030 is  
    amended to read as follows:  
  
    SMC 5.55.030 License Requirements.  
  
    A. No person, unless specifically exempted, shall engage in any  
    business activity, profession, trade or occupation in the City without  
    having first obtained and being the holder of a valid and subsisting  
    license to do so, to be known as a "business license." The fee for the  
    business license shall be Seventy-five Dollars ($75.00) for persons  
    engaging in any business activity, profession, trade or occupation in  
    the City prior to July 1st and Thirty-seven Dollars and Fifty Cents  
    ($37.50) for persons beginning their activity on or after July 1st.  
    Effective January 1, 2003 a surcharge of five dollars ($5) will be  
    added to the fee for a business license for persons engaging in any  
    business activity, profession, trade or occupation in the City prior  
    to July 1st and a surcharge of three dollars ($3) Two Dollars  
    and Fifty Cents ($2.50) will be added to the fee for a business  
    license for persons beginning their activity after June 30. The fee  
    shall accompany the application for the license.  
  
    The business license shall expire at the end of the calendar year for  
    which it is issued. The business license shall be personal and  
    nontransferable except as provided in subsection G, below.  
    Applications for the business license shall be made to the Director on  
    forms provided by the Director. Each business license shall be  
    numbered, shall show the name, place and character of the business of  
    the licensee, and such other information as the Director deems  
    necessary, and shall at all times be conspicuously posted in the place  
    of business for which it is issued.  
  
    If the licensee changes the place of business, the licensee shall  
    return the business license to the Director and a new license shall be  
    issued for the new place of business free of charge.  
  
    Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed  
    by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day  
    of __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    March 5, 2003  
    version #1  
