* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114501**   
**Ordinance Number: 121145**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Seattle Municipal Code Sections 23.45.110, 23.46.004, 23.47.001, 23.47.006, 23.47.010, 23.47.028, 23.47.042, 23.48.008, 23.50.014, 23.50.027, 23.53.020, 23.53.030, 23.54.015, 23.66.234, 23.72.008, 23.84.004, 23.84.010, 23.84.012, 23.84.030, 23.84.038, to amend the City's land use regulations relating to eating and drinking establishments.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 12, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 22, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 22, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 10, 2003   
**Committee:** Land Use   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, EATING-AND-DRINKING-PLACES  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 113662, 112777, 113974, 120661, 120609, 120117, 119239, 118414, 112303, 119239, 118302, 120155, 120611, 120953, 118794, 120443  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114501.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114501  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Seattle  
    Municipal Code Sections 23.45.110, 23.46.004, 23.47.001, 23.47.006,  
    23.47.010, 23.47.028, 23.47.042, 23.48.008, 23.50.014, 23.50.027,  
    23.53.020, 23.53.030, 23.54.015, 23.66.234, 23.72.008, 23.84.004,  
    23.84.010, 23.84.012, 23.84.030, 23.84.038, to amend the City's land  
    use regulations relating to eating and drinking establishments.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Subsection B of Section 23.45.110 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 113662,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    23.45.110  Ground-floor business and commercial use in Midrise and  
    Highrise zones.  
  
    ***  
  
    B.  Permitted Commercial Uses. The following uses shall be permitted  
    as ground-floor commercial uses in Midrise and Highrise zones:  
  
    1.  Personal and household retail sales and services;  
  
    2.  Medical services;  
  
    3.  Restaurants without cocktail lounges;  
  
    4.  Business support services;  
  
    5.  Offices; and  
  
      6.  Food processing and craft work.  
  
    C.  Ground-floor commercial uses shall meet the following standards:  
  
    1.  All business, service, repair, processing, storage or merchandise  
    display shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed structure,  
    except for off-street vehicle parking and off-street loading. All  
    goods produced shall be sold at retail on the premises where  
    produced.  
  
    2.  The maximum gross floor area of any one (1) business enterprise  
    shall be no greater than four thousand (4,000) square feet, except  
    that the maximum gross floor area of a multi-purpose convenience  
    store shall be ten thousand (10,000) square feet.  
  
    3.  Processes and equipment employed and goods processed or sold  
    shall be limited to those which do not produce noticeable odors,  
    dust, smoke, cinders, gas, noise, vibration, refuse matter or water-  
    carried waste.  
  
    4.  Parking shall be required as provided in Chapter 23.54.  
  
    5.  No loading berths shall be required for ground-floor commercial  
    uses. If provided, loading berths shall be located so that access to  
    residential parking is not blocked.  
  
    6.  Identifying signs shall be permitted according to Chapter 23.55,  
    Signs.  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 2.  Subsection B of Section 23.46.004 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 112777,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    23.46.004  Uses.  
  
    ***  
  
    B.  The following commercial uses shall be permitted outright:  
  
    1.  Personal and household retail sales and services;  
  
    2.  Medical services;  
  
    3.  Restaurants without cocktail lounges;  
  
    4.  Business support services;  
  
    5.  Offices; and  
  
    6.  Food processing and craft work.  
  
    ***  
  
      Section 3.  Chart A of Section 23.47.004 of the Seattle Municipal  
    Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 120661, is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    ***  
  
                              COMMERCIAL USES: CHART A  
                               For Section 23.47.004  
  
                                                           ZONES  
  
                                      NC1      NC2      NC3     C1       C2  
  
    I. COMMERCIAL USE  
  
     A. Retail Sales and Services  
  
      1. Personal and Household Retail  
    Sales and Services  
  
        - Multi-purpose convenience        P        P        P       P        P  
    stores  
  
        - General retail sales and         P        P        P       P        P  
    service  
  
        - Major durables sales, service    P        P        P       P        P  
    and rental  
  
        - Specialty food stores        P        P        P       P        P  
  
      2. Medical Services                  P/CU1    P/CU1    P/CU1    P/CU1   P/CU1  
  
      3. Animal Services2  
  
        - Animal health services           P        P        P        P       P  
  
        - Kennels                          X        X        X        X       P  
  
        - Animal shelters                  X        X        X        X       X  
  
        - Pet grooming services            P        P        P        P       P  
  
      4. Automotive Retail Sales and  
    Services  
  
        - Gas Stations                     P        P        P        P       P  
  
        - Sales and rental of motorized    X        P        P        P       P  
    vehicles  
  
        - Vehicle repair, minor            P        P        P        P       P  
  
        - Vehicle repair, major            X        P        P        P       P  
  
        - Car wash                         X        P        P        P       P  
  
        - Towing services                  X        X        X        P       P  
  
        - Automotive parts or accessory    P        P        P        P       P  
          sales  
  
      5. Marine Retail Sales and Services  
  
        - Sales and rental of large boats  X        P        P        P       P  
  
        - Vessel repair, minor             P        P        P        P       P  
  
        - Vessel repair, major             X        X        X        S       S  
  
        - Marine service station           P        P        P        P       P  
  
        - Dry storage of boats             X        P        P        P       P  
  
        - Recreational marinas             S        S        S        S       S  
  
        - Commercial moorage               S        S        S        S       S  
  
        - Sale of boat parts or            P        P        P        P       P  
    accessories  
  
      6. Eating and Drinking  
    establishments  
  
        - Restaurants without         P        P        P        P       P  
    cocktail lounges  
  
        - Restaurants with cocktail      X       P        P        P        P  
     lounges  
  
         - Fast-food restaurant (750      P        P        P        P       P  
    sq. ft.  }  { and under)  
  
    - Restaurants with drive-in           X        X        CU       P       P  
           lanes  
  
        - Fast-food restaurant (over       CU       CU       CU      CU       CU  
    }       { 750 sq ft.)  
  
        - TavernDrinking            CU       CU       P        P       P  
    Establishment  
  
        Brewpub                          CU       CU       P        P       P   
  
      7. Lodging  
  
        - Hotel                            X        X        P        P       P  
  
        - Motel                            X        X        P        P       P  
  
        - Bed and breakfast                P3       P3       P        P       P  
  
      8. Mortuary services                 X        P        P        P       P  
  
      9. Existing cemeteries14             P        P        P        P       P  
  
      *  -  Increases in maximum size limits may be allowed for operating  
    business establishments according to provisions of subsection G.  
  
      X  -  Does not apply, use not permitted in zone.  
  
      1  -  Maximum size for all nonresidential uses in NC2/R and NC3/R  
    is described in Section 23.47.010 A2.  
  
      2  -  Fast-food restaurants larger than seven hundred fifty  
    (750) square feet are conditional uses.  
  
      2  -  At the Seattle Center, maximum size limit does not  
    apply.  
  
      3  -  No maximum size limitation for nonresidential uses  
    except office uses in C1 and C2 zones shall be limited to the size of  
    the lot area or thirty-five thousand (35,000) square feet, whichever  
    is greater.  Office uses in C1 and C2 zones may be exempt from this  
    limit if the structure meets specified standards for NC zones as  
    listed in Section 23.47.010A3.  
  
    ***  
  
          Section 4.  Subsection B of Section 23.47.006 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code which section was last amended by Ordinance 120691, is  
    amended as follows:  
  
    23.47.006  Conditional Uses  
  
    ***  
  
          B.  The following uses, identified as administrative  
    conditional uses on Chart A of Section 23.47.004, may be permitted by  
    the Director when the provisions of this subsection and subsection A  
    are met:  
  
                1.  Fast food restaurantsRestaurants that   
    which have a gross floor area greater than seven hundred fifty (750)  
    square feet are identified as heavy traffic generators and   
    include drive-in lanes may be permitted in NC3 zones as a  
    conditional use according to the following criteria:  
  
                      a.  The design of the structure, including  
    architectural treatment, signage, landscaping and lighting, is  
    compatible with other structures in the vicinity; and  
  
                      b.  Appropriate litter-control measures are  
    provided; and  
  
                      c.  The applicant, if required by the Director,  
    prepares an analysis of traffic, circulation and parking impacts, and  
    demonstrates that the use does not:  
  
                            (1)  Cause significant additional traffic to  
    circulate through adjacent residential neighborhoods, or  
  
                            (2)  Disrupt the pedestrian character of an  
    area by significantly increasing the potential for pedestrian-vehicle  
    conflicts, or  
  
                            (3)  Create traffic or access problems which  
    will require the expenditure of City funds to mitigate, or  
  
                            (4)  Interfere with peak-hour transit  
    operations, by causing auto traffic to cross a designated high-  
    occupancy vehicle lane adjacent to the lot, or  
  
                            (5)  Cause cars waiting to use the facility  
    to queue across the sidewalk or onto the street, or  
  
                            (6)  Interrupt established retail or service  
    frontage designed to serve pedestrians;  
  
                      d. In addition to the criteria in subsections  
    B1a, B1b and B1c, in pedestrian-designated zones, the use shall not:  
  
                            (1) Include a drive-in facility, or  
  
  
                            (2) Provide any accessory parking, or  
  
  
                            (3) Attract a significant number of customers  
    who drive to the pedestrian district for the primary purpose of  
    patronizing the business.  This shall be determined by a  
    transportation analysis of travel modes and patterns of customers of  
    similar businesses in the same or similar commercial areas, which  
    shall be prepared by a traffic consultant retained by the applicant;  
  
  
                      e.d. Fast-food restaurants which  
    Restaurants that are drive-in businesses shall also comply  
    with the provisions of Section 23.47.028, standards for drive-in  
    businesses.  
  
                2. Taverns and brewpubsDrinking establishments  
     in NC1 and NC2 zones may be permitted as conditional uses.  A   
    tavern or brewpub drinking establishment in an NC1 or NC2  
    zone shall be evaluated according to the following criteria:  
  
                      a.  The size of the tavern or brewpub   
    drinking establishment, design of the structure, signing and  
    illumination, shall be compatible with the character of the  
    commercial area and other structures in the vicinity, particularly in  
    areas where a distinct and definite pattern or style has been  
    established.  
  
                      b.  The location, access and design of parking  
    shall be compatible with adjacent residential zones.  
  
                      c.  Special consideration shall be given to the  
    location and design of the doors and windows of taverns and  
    brewpubs drinking establishments to ensure that noise  
    standards will not be exceeded.  The Director may require additional  
    setbacks and/or restrict openings on lots which abut residential  
    zones.  
  
                      d.  Taverns and brewpubs Drinking  
    establishments shall not generate traffic which creates traffic  
    congestion or further aggravates spillover parking on residential  
    streets.  
  
      3.  Park-and-ride lots in NC3, C1 and C2 zones may be permitted as  
    conditional uses.  
  
                      a.  Conditional Use Criteria.  
  
                            (1)  The park-and-ride lot shall have direct  
    vehicular access to a designated arterial improved to City standards.  
  
                            (2)  If the proposed park-and-ride lot is  
    located on a lot containing accessory parking for other uses, there  
    shall be no substantial conflict in the principal operating hours of  
    the park- and-ride lot and the other uses.  
  
                      b.  Mitigating Measures. Landscaping and screening  
    in addition to that required for surface parking areas, noise  
    mitigation, vehicular access controls, signage restrictions, and  
    other measures may be required to provide comfort and safety for  
    pedestrians and bicyclists and to insure the compatibility of the  
    park-and-ride lot with the surrounding area.  
  
                4.  Single-purpose residential structures may be  
    permitted outright, permitted as an administrative conditional use or  
    prohibited as provided by Section 23.47.004 E.  In order to conserve  
    the limited amount of commercially zoned land for commercial uses,  
    single-purpose residential structures shall generally not be allowed  
    in commercial zones. However, additions to, or on-site accessory  
    structures for, existing single-family structures are permitted  
    outright. Where single-purpose residential structures may be  
    permitted as an administrative conditional use, such a permit may be  
    granted only when the following circumstances exist:  
  
                      a.  Due to location or parcel size, the proposed  
    site is not suited for commercial development; or  
  
                      b.  There is substantial excess supply of land  
    available for commercial use near the proposed site, evidenced by  
    such conditions as a lack of commercial activity in existing  
    commercial structures for a sustained period, commercial structures  
    in disrepair, and vacant or underused commercially zoned land;  
    provided that single-purpose residential development shall not  
    interrupt an established commercial street front. As used in this  
    subsection, an "established commercial street front" may be  
    intersected by streets or alleys, and some lots with no current  
    commercial use.  
  
                5.  Residential Uses in C2 Zones.  
  
                      a.  In order to conserve the limited amount of  
    commercially zoned land for commercial uses, residential uses in  
    single-purpose or mixed-use structures shall generally not be allowed  
    in C2 zones.  However, additions to, or on-site accessory structures  
    for, existing single-family structures shall be permitted outright.  
    Residential uses in single-purpose or mixed-use structures may be  
    permitted in C2 zones as administrative conditional uses according to  
    the following criteria:  
  
                            (1)  Availability of Suitable Land for C2  
    Activities.  Residential uses shall generally be discouraged in areas  
    which have limited vacant land and where, due to terrain and large  
    parcel size, land is particularly suitable for commercial rather than  
    residential development.  
  
                            (2)  Relationship to Transportation Systems.  
    Residential uses shall generally be discouraged in areas with direct  
    access to major transportation systems such as freeways, state routes  
    and freight rail lines.  
  
                            (3)  Compatibility With Surrounding Areas.  
    Residential uses shall not be allowed in close proximity to  
    industrial areas and/or in areas where nonresidential uses may create  
    a nuisance or adversely affect the desirability of the area for  
    living purposes.  
  
                      b.  Residential uses required to obtain a shoreline  
    conditional use shall not be required to obtain an administrative  
    conditional use.  
  
                6.  Development of a medical service use over ten  
    thousand (10,000) square feet, outside but within two thousand five  
    hundred (2,500) feet of a medical Major Institution overlay district  
    boundary, shall be subject to administrative conditional use  
    approval, unless included in an adopted master plan. In making a  
    determination whether to approve or deny a medical service use, the  
    Director shall determine whether an adequate supply of commercially  
    zoned land for businesses serving neighborhood residents will  
    continue to exist. The following factors shall be used in making this  
    determination:  
  
                      a.  Whether the amount of medical service use  
    development existing and proposed in the vicinity would reduce the  
    current viability or significantly impact the longer-term potential  
    of the neighborhood-serving character of the commercial area; and  
  
                      b.  Whether medical service use development would  
    displace existing neighborhood-serving commercial uses at street  
    level or disrupt a continuous commercial street front, particularly  
    of retail and personal services uses, or significantly detract from  
    an area's overall neighborhood-serving commercial character.  
  
    ***  
  
          Section 5.  Chart B of Section 23.47.010 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 119239,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
                                     CHART B  
    For Section 23.47.010  
  
    ZONE  
  
    Nonresidential    NC1*        NC2*1       NC3*1         C1            C2  
     Uses Subject  
    to Maximum  
    Size Limit  
  
    Nonresidential  4,000 sq.  15,000 sq.    N.M.S.L.    N.M.S.L.      N.M.S.L.  
     uses              ft.         ft.                    35,000        35,000  
    including                                            sq. ft.2      sq. ft.2  
    institutions  
    and public  
    facilities  
    unless  
    otherwise  
    specified  
  
    Medical        10,000 sq.  15,000 sq.    N.M.S.L.    N.M.S.L.      N.M.S.L.  
    services           ft.         ft.  
  
    Multi-purpose  10,000 sq.  50,000 sq.    N.M.S.L.    N.M.S.L.      N.M.S.L.  
    convenience        ft.         ft.  
    store  
  
    Food            4,000 sq.   5,000 sq.   10,000 sq.   N.M.S.L.      N.M.S.L.  
    processing         ft.         ft.         ft.  
    and craft  
    work  
  
    Light               X       5,000 sq.   10,000 sq.   N.M.S.L.      N.M.S.L.  
    manufacturing                  ft.         ft.  
  
    Fast-food     750 sq.   750 sq.     750 sq.      750 sq.       750 sq.  
    restaurant2          ft.       ft.         ft.          ft.           ft.  
  
  
    Fuel sales      4,000 sq.   8,000 sq.    N.M.S.L.    N.M.S.L.      N.M.S.L.  
                       ft.         ft.  
  
    Sales,              X           X       25,000 sq.   N.M.S.L.      N.M.S.L.  
    service and                                ft.  
    rental of  
    commercial  
    equipment and  
    construction  
    materials  
    Passenger  
    terminals  
  
    Indoor          4,000 sq.  15,000 sq.   25,000 sq.   N.M.S.L.      N.M.S.L.  
    participant        ft.         ft.         ft.3  
    sports and  
    recreation  
  
    General             X           X           X       15,000 sq.     N.M.S.L.  
    manufacturing                                           ft.  
  
    Wholesale           X           X       15,000 sq.  25,000 sq.     N.M.S.L.  
    showroom                                   ft.          ft.  
    warehouse  
  
    Mini-warehouse      X           X       15,000 sq.  40,000 sq.     N.M.S.L.  
    s                                          ft.          ft.  
  
    Public          N.M.S.L.    N.M.S.L.     N.M.S.L.    N.M.S.L.      N.M.S.L.  
    schools  
  
    N.M.S.L. - No Maximum Size Limitations.  
     * - Increases in maximum size limits may be allowed for operating  
    business establishments according to provisions of subsection G.  
     X - Does not apply, use not permitted in zone.  
     1 - Maximum size for all nonresidential uses in NC2/R and NC3/R is  
    described in Section 23.47.010 A2.  
     ((2 - Fast-food restaurants larger than seven hundred fifty (750)  
    square feet are conditional uses.))  
    2 - At the Seattle Center, maximum size limit does not apply.  
    3 - No maximum size limitation for nonresidential uses except office  
    uses in C1 and C2 zones shall be limited to the size of the lot area or  
    thirty-five thousand (35,000) square feet, whichever is greater.  Office  
    uses in C1 and C2 zones may be exempt from this limit if the structure  
    meets specified standards for NC zones as listed in Section 23.47.010A3.  
  
    Section 6.  Subsection A of Section 23.47.028 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 120611,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    23.47.028  Standards for drive-in businesses.  
  
    A.  Number of Drive-in Lanes Permitted.  
  
    1.  Zones Designated NC2/R and NC3/R. Drive-in businesses are  
    prohibited in zones designated NC2/R and NC3/R.  
  
    2.  NC1 Zones. Gas stations shall be limited to a maximum of four (4)  
    drive-in lanes. Other drive-in businesses are prohibited.  
  
    3.  NC2 Zones. Restaurants with drive-in lanes are prohibited.  
    All other drive-in businesses in NC2 zones shall be limited to  
    a maximum of two (2) drive-in lanes, except gas stations which shall  
    be allowed a maximum of four (4) drive-in lanes.  
  
    4.  NC3 Zones. All drive-in businesses in NC3 zones shall be limited  
    to a maximum of four (4) drive-in lanes, except gas stations which  
    shall have no restrictions on the number of drive-in lanes.   
    Restaurants with drive-in lanes are subject to conditional use  
    approval pursuant to Section 23.47.006.  
  
    5.  C1 and C2 Zones. There shall be no restriction on the number  
    of drive-in lanes in C1 and C2 zones.  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 7.  Section 23.47.042 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    section was last amended by Ordinance 120609, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.47.042  Uses in Pedestrian-designated zones.  
  
    ***  
  
    B.  Fast-food restaurants up to twenty-five hundred (2,500) square  
    feet in size which provide indoor dining areas and do not provide  
    off-street parking shall be permitted outright. All other heavy  
    traffic generators may be permitted as a conditional use, subject to  
    the provisions of Section 23.47.006.  
  
    CB.  Drive-in businesses, including gas stations, are  
    prohibited in pedestrian-designated zones.  
  
    DC.  Street-level Uses Required.  
  
        1.  Street-level uses shall be required along the principal  
    pedestrian street front, except as provided in subsection D4, and  
    shall be limited to the following retail sales and service and office  
    uses if permitted in the underlying commercial zone:  
  
          a.  Personal and household retail sales and service uses;  
  
          b.  Eating and drinking establishments;  
  
          c.  Customer service offices;  
  
          d.  Entertainment uses;  
  
          e.  Pet grooming services;  
  
          f.  Public library.  
  
        2.  A minimum of eighty (80) percent of each street frontage to  
    which street-level use requirements apply shall be occupied by uses  
    listed in subsection D1.  The remaining twenty (20) percent of the  
    street frontage may contain other permitted uses and/or pedestrian  
    entrances (Exhibit 23.47.042 A).  
  
        3.  Required street-level uses shall be set back no more than ten  
    (10) feet from the street property line and shall occupy at least the  
    first ten (10) feet above sidewalk grade.  
  
        4.  Street-level use requirements shall not apply to public  
    school development along principal pedestrian streets.  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 8.  Subsection B of Section 23.48.008 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 118302,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    23.48.008  Conditional uses.  
  
    ***  
  
    B.  The following uses may be permitted by the Director as  
    administrative conditional uses when the provisions of this  
    subsection and subsection A are met:  
  
    1.  Mini-warehouses and Warehouses. The Director may authorize mini-  
    warehouses or warehouses if:  
  
    a.  The mini-warehouse or warehouse, at the street level, fronts only  
    on an east/west oriented Class II Pedestrian Street, as depicted on  
    Map B, or an alley; and  
  
    b.  Vehicular entrances, including those for loading operations, will  
    not disrupt traffic or transit routes; and  
  
    c.  The traffic generated will not disrupt the pedestrian character  
    of an area by significantly increasing the potential for pedestrian-  
    vehicle conflicts on Class I Pedestrian Streets or north/south  
    oriented Class II Pedestrian Streets.  
  
    2. Fast-food Restaurants which Have a Gross Floor Area Greater  
    than Seven Hundred fifty Square Feet. The Director may authorize such  
    fast-food restaurants if:  
  
    a. The use does not include a drive-in facility; and  
  
  
    b. Appropriate litter-control measures are provided; and  
  
  
    c. The applicant, if required by the Director, prepares an analysis  
    of traffic, circulation and parking impacts, and demonstrates that  
    the use does not:  
  
  
    (1) Create pedestrian-vehicle conflicts on Class I Pedestrian Streets  
    or north/south oriented Class II Pedestrian Streets, or  
  
  
    (2) Create traffic or parking impacts, particularly impacts which  
    will require the expenditure of City funds to mitigate, or  
  
  
    (3) Vehicular entrances, including those for loading operations, will  
    not disrupt traffic or transit routes.  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 9.  Subsection B of Section 23.50.014 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Sectionsection was last amended by  
    Ordinance 120117, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.50.014  Conditional Uses  
  
    ***  
  
    B.  Administrative Conditional Uses. The following uses, identified  
    as administrative conditional uses in Chart A, may be permitted by  
    the Director when the provisions of this subsection and subsection A  
    of this section are met.  
  
    1.  Artist's studio/dwellings in an existing structure may be  
    permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1 (IG1), General  
    Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial Commercial  
    (IC) zones, except as provided in the Shoreline District, Chapter  
    23.60, upon showing that the occupant is a bona fide working artist,  
    and subject to the following criteria:  
  
    a.  Artist's studio/dwellings shall generally be discouraged along  
    arterials such as freeways, state routes and freight lines;  
  
    b.  Artist's studio/dwellings shall not be allowed in areas where  
    existing industrial uses may cause environmental or safety problems;  
  
    c.  Artist's studio/dwellings shall not be located where they may  
    restrict or disrupt industrial activity;  
  
    d.  The nature of the artist's work shall be such that there is a  
    genuine need for the space; and  
  
    e.  The owner(s) of a building seeking a conditional use for artist's  
    studio/dwellings must sign and record a covenant and equitable  
    servitude, on a form acceptable to the Director, that acknowledges  
    that the owner(s) and occupants of the building accept the industrial  
    character of the neighborhood and agree that existing or permitted  
    industrial uses do not constitute a nuisance or other inappropriate  
    or unlawful use of land. Such covenant and equitable servitude must  
    state that it is binding on the owner(s)' successors, heirs, and  
    assigns, including any lessees of the artist's studio/dwellings.  
  
    2.  Park-and-pool lots in IG1 and IG2 zones in the Duwamish  
    Manufacturing/Industrial Center, and park-and-ride lots in General  
    Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer  
    (IB) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones may be permitted as a  
    conditional use according to the following criteria:  
  
    a.  The lot shall not create conflict with industrial activity by  
    causing significant additional traffic to circulate through the area;  
  
    b.  The lot has direct vehicular access to a designated arterial  
    improved to City standards;  
  
    c.  The lot shall be located on an existing parking area unless no  
    reasonable alternative exists;  
  
    d.  If the proposed lot is located on a lot containing accessory  
    parking for other uses, there shall be no substantial conflict in the  
    principal operating hours of the lot and the other uses; and  
  
    e.  The lot is not located within three thousand (3,000) feet of  
    downtown.  
  
    3.  Except in the Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center, lodging  
    uses may be permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1  
    (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and  
    Industrial Commercial (IC) zones according to the following criteria:  
  
    a.  The use is designed primarily to serve users in the industrial  
    area; and  
  
    b.  The use is designed and located to minimize conflicts with  
    industrial uses in the area.  
  
    4.  A residential use not otherwise permitted in the zone may be  
    permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1 (IG1), General  
    Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial Commercial  
    (IC) zones within a structure designated as a Landmark, pursuant to  
    the Seattle Municipal Code, Chapter 25.12, Landmarks Preservation, or  
    within a structure in a Landmark District, pursuant to the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, Chapters 25.16, Ballard Avenue Landmark District, or  
    Chapter 25.28, Pioneer Square Historical District, subject to the  
    following criteria:  
  
    a.  The use shall be compatible with the historic or landmark  
    character of the structure. The Director shall request a  
    determination regarding compatibility by the respective Board having  
    jurisdiction over the structure or lot;  
  
    b.  The residential use shall not restrict or disrupt industrial  
    activity in the zone; and  
  
    c.  The surrounding uses would not be detrimental to occupants of the  
    Landmark structure.  
  
    5.  High Impact 1 uses may be permitted as a conditional use in  
    General Industrial 1 (IG1), and General Industrial 2 (IG2) zones,  
    according to the following criteria:  
  
    a.  The lot is located so that large concentrations of people,  
    particularly in residential and commercial areas, are not exposed to  
    unreasonable adverse impacts;  
  
    b.  A management plan may be required. The Director may determine the  
    level of detail to be disclosed in the plan based on the probable  
    impacts and/or the scale of the effects. Discussion of materials  
    handling and storage, odor control, transportation and other factors  
    may be required.  
  
    6.  A new railroad switchyard with a mechanized hump, or the  
    expansion of such a use beyond the lot occupied at the date of  
    adoption of the ordinance codified in this section(Note 1) may be  
    permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1 (IG1) and  
    General Industrial 2 (IG2) zones, according to the following  
    criteria:  
  
    a.  The lot is located so that large concentrations of people,  
    particularly in residential and commercial areas, are not exposed to  
    unreasonable adverse impacts;  
  
    b.  Measures to minimize the impacts of noise, light and glare, and  
    other measures to insure the compatibility of the use with the  
    surrounding area and to mitigate adverse impacts shall be  
    incorporated into the design and operation of the facility.  
  
    7.  Solid waste transfer stations may be permitted as a conditional  
    use in General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2) and  
    Industrial Commercial (IC) zones according to the following criteria:  
  
    a.  Measures to minimize potential odor emissions and airborne  
    pollutants shall be determined in consultation with the Puget Sound  
    Air Pollution Control Agency (PSAPCA). These measures shall be  
    incorporated into the design and operation of the facility;  
  
    b.  Measures to maximize control of rodents, birds and other vectors  
    shall be determined in consultation with the Seattle/King County  
    Department of Public Health. These measures shall be incorporated  
    into the design and operation of the facility;  
  
    c.  A transportation plan may be required. The Director shall  
    determine the level of detail to be disclosed in the plan such as  
    estimated trip generation, access routes and surrounding area traffic  
    counts, based on the probable impacts and/or scale of the proposed  
    facility; and  
  
    d.  Measures to minimize other impacts are incorporated into the  
    design and operation of the facility.  
  
    8.  Heavy Manufacturing uses may be permitted in the Industrial  
    Buffer (IB) zone as a conditional use according to the following  
    criteria:  
  
    a.  The use shall be located within an enclosed building except for  
    shipbuilding;  
  
    b.  The hours of operation for all processes creating any adverse  
    impacts on residentially or commercially zoned land may be limited;  
  
    c.  Truck and service traffic associated with the heavy manufacturing  
    use shall be directed away from streets serving lots in nonindustrial  
    zones;  
  
    d.  The infrastructure of the area shall be capable of accommodating  
    the traffic generated by the proposed use; and  
  
    e.  The use shall not produce sustained or recurrent vibrations  
    exceeding 0.002g acceleration as measured on lots in nonindustrial  
    zones.  
  
    9.  The Heavy Manufacturing uses listed in subsection B9a of this  
    section may be permitted in the Industrial Commercial (IC) zone as a  
    conditional use according to criteria contained in subsection B9b.  
  
    a.  Uses.  
  
    (1) Mass production of commercial or recreational vessels of any size  
    and the production of vessels up to one hundred and twenty (120) feet  
    in length, constructed to individual specifications; and  
  
    (2) Manufacturing of electrical components, such as semiconductors  
    and circuit boards, using chemical processes such as etching or metal  
    coating; and  
  
    (3) Production of industrial organic and inorganic chemicals, and  
    soaps and detergents.  
  
    b.  Criteria.  
  
    (1) Except for shipbuilding, the use shall be located within an  
    enclosed building;  
  
    (2) The hours of operation for all processes creating any impacts on  
    residentially or commercially zoned land may be limited;  
  
    (3) Truck and service traffic associated with the heavy manufacturing  
    use shall be directed away from streets serving lots in nonindustrial  
    zones;  
  
    (4) The infrastructure of the area shall be capable of accommodating  
    the traffic generated by the proposed use;  
  
    (5) The use shall not produce sustained or recurrent vibrations  
    exceeding 0.002g acceleration as measured on lots in nonindustrial  
    zones;  
  
    (6) The finished product as packaged for sale or distribution shall  
    be in such a form that product handling and shipment does not  
    constitute a significant public health risk; and  
  
    (7) The nature of the materials produced and/or the scale of  
    manufacturing operations may be limited in order to minimize the  
    degree and severity of risks to public health and safety.  
  
    10.  The High Impact uses listed in subsection B10a of this section  
    may be permitted as conditional uses in the Industrial Commercial  
    (IC) zone according to the criteria contained in subsection B10b of  
    this section.  
  
    a.  Uses.  
  
    (1)  The manufacture of Group A hazardous materials, except Class A  
    or B explosives; and  
  
    (2)  The manufacture of Group B hazardous materials, when the  
    hazardous materials are present in quantities greater than two  
    thousand five hundred (2,500) pounds of solids, two hundred seventy-  
    five (275) gallons of liquids, or one thousand (1,000) cubic feet of  
    gas at any time.  
  
    b.  Criteria.  
  
    (1)  The lot is located so that large concentrations of people,  
    particularly in residential and commercial areas, are not exposed to  
    unreasonable adverse impacts;  
  
    (2)  A management plan may be required. The Director may determine  
    the level of detail to be disclosed in the plan based on the probable  
    impacts and/or the scale of the effects. Discussion of materials  
    handling and storage, odor control, transportation and other factors  
    may be required;  
  
    (3)  The finished product as packaged for sale or distribution shall  
    be in such a form that product handling and shipment does not  
    constitute a significant public health risk; and  
  
    (4)  The nature of the materials produced and/or the scale of  
    manufacturing operations may be limited in order to minimize the  
    degree and severity of risks to public health and safety.  
  
    11.  Fast-food restaurants that have a gross floor area greater  
    than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet are identified as heavy  
    traffic generators and, where not permitted outright, may be  
    permitted as a conditional use in the General Industrial 1 (IG1),  
    General Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial  
    Commercial (IC) zones according to the following criteria:  
  
    a.  The Director may require that the applicant prepare an analysis  
    of traffic, circulation, and parking impacts and demonstrate that the  
    use will not:  
  
  
    (1)  Cause significant additional traffic to circulate through nearby  
    residential neighborhoods,  
  
  
    (2)  Disrupt the pedestrian flow of an area by significantly  
    increasing the potential for pedestrian-vehicle conflicts,  
  
  
    (3)  Create traffic or access problems which may require the  
    expenditure of City funds to mitigate,  
  
  
    (4)  Interfere with peak-hour transit operations by causing auto  
    traffic to cross a designated high-occupancy vehicle lane adjacent to  
    the lot, or  
  
  
    (5)  Cause cars waiting to use the facility to queue across the  
    sidewalk or onto the street;  
  
  
    b.  Appropriate litter-control measures are provided.  
  
    11.  Transit vehicle bases may be permitted as a conditional use in  
    the General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2),  
    Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones according  
    to the following criteria:  
  
    a.  The amount of industrial land occupied by the facility shall be  
    minimized. To avoid disruption of the industrial function of the  
    area, the presence of the facility shall not obstruct the operation  
    or likely expansion of existing industrial uses;  
  
    b.  The location of the facility shall not result in significant  
    displacement of viable industrial uses or support activities;  
  
    c.  The amount of land occupied by the facility that has access to  
    industrial shorelines or major rail facilities shall be  
  
    minimized; and  
  
    d.  A transportation plan may be required to prevent conflicts with  
    nearby industrial uses. The Director shall determine the level of  
    detail to be disclosed in the plan based on the probable impacts  
    and/or scale of the proposed facility.  
  
    12.  Development of a medical service use over ten thousand (10,000)  
    square feet, outside but within two thousand five hundred (2,500)  
    feet of a medical Major Institution overlay district boundary, shall  
    be subject to administrative conditional use approval, unless  
    included in an adopted master plan. In making a determination whether  
    to approve or deny medical service use, the Director shall determine  
    whether an adequate supply of industrially zoned land will continue  
    to exist. The following factors shall be used in making this  
    determination:  
  
    a.  Whether the amount of medical service use development existing  
    and proposed in the vicinity would reduce the current viability or  
    significantly impact the longer-term potential of the manufacturing  
    or heavy commercial character of the industrial area; and  
  
    b.  Whether medical service use development would displace existing  
    manufacturing or heavy commercial uses or usurp vacant land, in areas  
    with parcels particularly suited for manufacturing or heavy  
    commercial uses.  
  
    13.  A nonconforming use may be converted by an administrative  
    conditional use authorization to a use not otherwise permitted in the  
    zone based on the following factors:  
  
    a.  New uses shall be limited to those first permitted in the next  
    more intensive zone;  
  
    b.  The Director shall evaluate the relative impacts of size,  
    parking, traffic, light, glare, noise, odor and similar impacts of  
    the two (2) uses, and how these impacts could be mitigated;  
  
    c.  The Director must find that the new nonconforming use is no more  
    detrimental to property in the zone and vicinity than the existing  
    nonconforming use.  
  
    14.  An accessory hospital facility may be permitted as a conditional  
    use according to the following criteria:  
  
    a.  The hospital facility is an integral element of a research and  
    development laboratory or an institute for advanced study to which it  
    is accessory; and  
  
    b.  The hospital use shall not be allowed in areas where industrial  
    activity may adversely affect hospital activity.  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 10.  Chart B of Section 23.50.027 of the Seattle Municipal  
    Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 120155, is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    ***  
  
                                    CHART B  
  
                            GENERAL INDUSTRIAL ZONES WITHIN DUWAMISH M/I  
                            CENTER  
  
    Categories of Uses  
    Subject to Size of  
    Use Limits                       IG1                       IG2  
  
    Office uses                 50,000 sq. ft.           100,000 sq. ft.  
  
    Retail sales and  
    service (except for  
    restaurants and  
    drinking  
    establishments           25,000 sq. ft.           50,000 sq. ft.  
    , fast-food   
    restaurants over   
    750 sq. ft. taverns   
    and  
    brew pubs)  
  
    Restaurants and  
    fast-food restaurants       5,000 sq. ft.             5,000 sq. ft.  
    over 750 sq. ft.))  
  
    Taverns and brew       3,000 sq. ft.             3,000 sq. ft.  
    pubs* }Drinking  
    establishments  
  
    Meeting halls                  N.M.S.L.               5.000 sq. ft.  
  
    N.M.S.L. = No Maximum Size Limits  
  
    * The maximum size limit for brew pubs applies to that portion  
    of the pub that is not used for brewing purposes.  
  
    Section 11.  Subsection D of Section 23.53.015 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 119239,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    23.53.015  Improvement requirements for existing streets in  
    residential and commercial zones.  
  
    ***  
  
    D.  Exceptions.  
  
    1.  Streets With Existing Curbs.  
  
    a.  Streets With Right-of-Way Greater Than or Equal to the Minimum  
    Width. When a street with existing curbs abuts a lot and the existing  
    right-of-way is greater than or equal to the minimum width  
    established in subsection A6 of this section, but the roadway width  
    is less than the minimum established in the Street Improvement  
    Manual, the following requirements shall be met:  
  
    (1)  All structures on the lot shall be designed to accommodate the  
    grade of the future street improvements.  
  
    (2)  A no-protest agreement to future street improvements shall be  
    required, as authorized by RCW Chapter 35.43. The agreement shall be  
    recorded with the King County Department of Records and Elections.  
  
    (3)  If there is no sidewalk, a sidewalk shall be constructed in the  
    portion of the right-of-way abutting the lot, except when the  
    following types of projects are proposed:  
  
    i.  Remodeling and use changes within existing structures; and  
  
    ii.  Additions to existing structures which are exempt from  
    environmental review.  
  
    b.  Streets With Less than the Minimum Right-of-Way Width. When a  
    street with existing curbs abuts a lot and the existing right-of-way  
    is less than the minimum width established in subsection A5 of this  
    section, the following requirements shall be met:  
  
    (1)  Setback Requirement. A setback equal to half the difference  
    between the current right-of-way width and the minimum right-of-way  
    width established in subsection A6 of this section shall be required;  
    provided, however, that if a setback has been provided under this  
    provision, other lots on the block shall provide the same setback. In  
    all residential zones except Highrise zones, an additional three (3)  
    foot setback shall also be required. The area of the setback may be  
    used to meet any development standards, except that required parking  
    may not be located in the setback. Underground structures which would  
    not prevent the future widening and improvement of the right-of-way  
    may be permitted in the required setback by the Director of  
    Construction and Land Use after consulting with the Director of  
    Transportation.  
  
    (2)  Grading Requirement. When a setback is required, all structures  
    on the lot shall be designed to accommodate the grade of the future  
    street according to the Street Improvement Manual.  
  
    (3)  No-protest Agreement Requirement. A no-protest agreement to  
    future street improvements shall be required, as authorized by RCW  
    Chapter 35.43. The agreement shall be recorded with the King County  
    Department of Records and Elections.  
  
    2.  Projects With Reduced Improvement Requirements.  
  
    a.  One (1) or Two (2) Dwelling Units. When one (1) or two (2)  
    dwelling units are proposed to be constructed, or one (1) or two (2)  
    Single Family zoned lots are proposed to be created, the following  
    requirements shall be met:  
  
    (1)  If there is no existing hard-surfaced roadway, a crushed-rock  
    roadway at least sixteen (16) feet in width shall be required,  
    according to the Street Improvement Manual.  
  
    (2)  All structures on the lot(s) shall be designed to accommodate  
    the grade of the future street improvements.  
  
    (3)  A no-protest agreement to future street improvements shall be  
    required, as authorized by RCW Chapter 35.43. The agreement shall be  
    recorded with the King County Department of Records and Elections.  
  
    b.  Other Projects With Reduced Requirements. The types of projects  
    listed in this subsection D2b are exempt from right-of-way dedication  
    requirements and are subject to the street improvement requirements  
    of this subsection:  
  
    (1)  Types of Projects.  
  
    i.  Proposed developments which contain fewer than ten (10) units in  
    SF, LDT and L1 zones, and six (6) residential units in all other  
    zones;  
  
    ii.  The following uses when they are smaller than seven hundred  
    fifty (750) square feet of gross floor area: fast-food  
    restaurants, major and minor vehicle repair uses, and multipurpose  
    convenience stores;  
  
    iii.  Nonresidential structures which have less than four thousand  
    (4,000) square feet of gross floor area and which do not contain uses  
    listed in subsection D2b(1)ii which are larger than seven hundred  
    fifty (750) square feet;  
  
    iv.  Structures containing a mix of residential and nonresidential  
    uses, if there are fewer than ten (10) units in SF, LDT and L1 zones,  
    or fewer than six (6) residential units in all other zones, and the  
    square footage of nonresidential use is less than specified in  
    subsections D2b(1)ii and D2b(1)iii;  
  
    v.  Remodeling and use changes within existing structures;  
  
    vi.  Additions to existing structures which are exempt from  
    environmental review; and  
  
    vii.  Expansions of a surface parking area or open storage area of  
    less than twenty (20) percent of parking area or storage area or  
    number of parking spaces.  
  
    (2)  Paving Requirement. For the types of projects listed in  
    subsection D2b(1), the streets abutting the lot shall have a hard-  
    surfaced roadway at least eighteen (18) feet wide. If there is not an  
    eighteen (18) foot wide hard-surfaced roadway, the roadway shall be  
    paved to a width of at least twenty (20) feet from the lot to the  
    nearest hard-surfaced street meeting this requirement, or one hundred  
    (100) feet, whichever is less. Streets that form a dead end at the  
    property to be developed shall be improved with a cul-de-sac or other  
    vehicular turnaround in accordance with the Street Improvement  
    Manual. The Director, after consulting with the Director of  
    Transportation, shall determine whether the street has the potential  
    for being extended or whether it forms a dead end because of  
    topography and/or the layout of the street system.  
  
    (3)  Other Requirements. The setback, grading and no-protest  
    agreement requirements of subsection D1b shall also be met.  
  
    3.  Exceptions from Required Street Improvements. The Director may  
    waive or modify the requirements for paving and drainage, dedication,  
    setbacks, grading, no-protest agreements, landscaping and curb and  
    sidewalk installation when it is determined that one (1) or more of  
    the following conditions are met:  
  
    a.  Location in an environmentally critical area, disruption of  
    existing drainage patterns, or removal of natural features such as  
    significant trees makes widening and/or improving the right-of-way  
    impractical or undesirable.  
  
    b.  The existence of a bridge, viaduct or structure such as a  
    substantial retaining wall makes widening the right-of-way  
    impractical or undesirable.  
  
    c.  Widening the right-of-way and/or improving the street would  
    adversely affect the character of the street, as it is defined in an  
    adopted neighborhood plan or adopted City plan for green street,  
    boulevards, or other special rights-of-way, or would otherwise  
    conflict with the stated goals of such a plan.  
  
    d.  Widening and/or improving the right-of-way would eliminate street  
    access to an existing lot.  
  
    e.  Widening and/or improving the right-of-way would make building on  
    a lot infeasible by reducing it to dimensions where development  
    standards cannot reasonably be met.  
  
    f.  One (1) or more substantial principal structures on the same side  
    of the block as the proposed project are located in the area needed  
    for future expansion of the right-of-way and the structure(s)'  
  
    condition and size make future widening of the remainder of the  
    right-of-way unlikely.  
  
    g.  Widening and/or improving the right-of-way is impractical because  
    topography would preclude the use of the street for vehicular access  
    to the lot, for example due to an inability to meet the required  
    twenty (20) percent maximum driveway slope.  
  
    h.  Widening and/or improving the right-of-way is not necessary  
    because it is adequate for current and potential pedestrian and  
    vehicular traffic, for example, due to the limited number of lots  
    served by the development or because the development on the street is  
    at zoned capacity.  
  
     Section 12.  Subsection E of Section 23.53.020 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 120611,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    23.53.020  Improvement Requirements for Existing Streets in  
    Industrial Zones  
  
    ***  
  
    E.  Exceptions.  
  
    1.  Streets With Existing Curbs.  
  
    a.  Streets With Right-of-Way Greater Than or Equal to the Minimum  
    Right-of-Way Width. When a street with existing curbs abuts a lot and  
    the existing right-of-way is greater than or equal to the minimum  
    width established in subsections B or D of this section, and the  
    existing right-of-way is greater than or equal to the minimum width  
    established in subsection A of this section, but the roadway width is  
    less than the minimum established in the Street Improvement Manual,  
    the following requirements shall be met:  
  
    (1)  All structures on the lot shall be designed to accommodate the  
    grade of the future street improvements.  
  
    (2)  A no-protest agreement to future street improvements shall be  
    required, as authorized by RCW Chapter 35.43. The agreement shall be  
    recorded with the title to the property with the King County  
    Department of Records and Elections.  
  
    (3)  If there is no sidewalk, a sidewalk shall be constructed, except  
    when the following projects are proposed:  
  
    i.  Remodeling and use changes within existing structures;  
  
    ii.  Additions to existing structures which are exempt from  
    environmental review.  
  
    b.  Streets With Less Than the Minimum Right-of-Way Width. When a  
    street with existing curbs abuts a lot and the existing right-of-way  
    is less than the minimum width established in subsection A6 of this  
    section, the following requirements shall be met:  
  
    (1)  Setback Requirement. A setback equal to half the difference  
    between the current right-of-way width and the minimum right-of-way  
    width established in subsection A6 of this section shall be required;  
    provided, however, that if a setback has been provided under this  
    provision, other lots on the block shall provide the same setback.  
    The area of the setback may be used to meet any development standard,  
    except that required parking may not be located in the setback.  
    Underground structures which would not prevent the future widening  
    and improvements of the right-of-way may be permitted in the required  
    setback by the Director after consulting with the Director of  
    Transportation.  
  
    (2)  Grading Requirement. When a setback is required, all structures  
    on the lot shall be designed to accommodate the grade of the future  
    street, according to the Street Improvement Manual.  
  
    (3)  A no-protest agreement to future street improvements shall be  
    required, as authorized by RCW Chapter 35.43. The agreement shall be  
    recorded with the title with the King County Department of Records  
    and Elections.  
  
    2.  Projects With Reduced Improvement Requirements. The following  
    types of projects are exempt from all dedication and improvement  
    requirements of subsections B, C and D of this section, but shall  
    meet the setback, grading and no-protest requirements of subsection  
    E1b if the street right-of-way abutting the lot has less than the  
    minimum right-of-way width established in subsection A of this  
    section or does not meet the grade of future street improvements.  
  
    a.  Structures with fewer than ten (10) artist's studio dwellings;  
  
    b.  The following uses when they are smaller than seven hundred fifty  
    (750) square feet of gross floor area: fast-food restaurants;  
    major and minor vehicle repair uses; and multipurpose convenience  
    stores;  
  
    c.  Nonresidential structures which have less than four thousand  
    (4,000) square feet of gross floor area and which do not contain uses  
    listed in subsection E2b of this section which are larger than seven  
    hundred fifty (750) square feet;  
  
    d.  Structures containing a mix of artist's studio dwellings and  
    nonresidential uses, if there are fewer than ten (10) artist's studio  
    dwellings, and the square footage of nonresidential use is less than  
    specified in subsections E2b and E2c of this section;  
  
    e.  Remodeling and use changes within existing structures;  
  
    f.  Additions to existing structures which are exempt from  
    environmental review; and  
  
    g.  Expansions of a surface parking area or open storage area of less  
    than twenty (20) percent of parking area or storage area or number of  
    parking spaces.  
  
    3.  Exceptions From Required Street Improvements. The Director may  
    waive or modify the requirements for paving, dedication, setbacks,  
    grading, no-protest agreements, landscaping and pedestrian walkway  
    installation when it is determined that one (1) or more of the  
    following conditions are met:  
  
    a.  Location in an environmentally critical area, disruption of  
    existing drainage patterns, or removal of natural features such as  
    significant trees makes widening and/or improving the right-of-way  
    impractical or undesirable.  
  
    b.  The existence of a bridge, viaduct or structure such as a  
    substantial retaining wall makes widening the right-of-way  
    impractical or undesirable.  
  
    c.  Widening the right-of-way and/or improving the street would  
    adversely affect the character of the street, as it is defined in an  
    adopted neighborhood plan or adopted City plan for Green Streets,  
    boulevards, or other special right-of-way, or would otherwise  
    conflict with the stated goals of such a plan.  
  
    d.  Widening and/or improving the right-of-way would make building on  
    a lot infeasible by reducing it to dimensions where development  
    standards cannot reasonably be met.  
  
    e.  Widening and/or improving the right-of-way would eliminate street  
    access to an existing lot.  
  
    f.  One (1) or more substantial principal structures on the same side  
    of the block as the proposed project are located in the area needed  
    for future expansion of the right-of-way and the structure(s)'  
    condition and size make future widening of the remainder of the  
    right-of-way unlikely.  
  
    g.  Widening and/or improving the right-of-way is impractical because  
    topography would preclude the use of the street for vehicular access  
    to the lot, for example due to an inability to meet the required  
    twenty (20) percent maximum driveway slope.  
  
    h.  Widening and/or improving the right-of-way is not necessary  
    because it is adequate for current and potential pedestrian and  
    vehicular traffic, for example, due to the limited number of lots  
    served by the development or because the development on the street is  
    at zoned capacity.  
  
    Section 13.  Subsection E of Section 23.53.030 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 118414,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    23.53.030  Alley improvements in all zones.  
  
    ***  
  
    E.  Existing Alleys Which Meet the Minimum Width. Except as provided  
    in subsection G of this section and except for one (1) and two (2)  
    dwelling unit developments that abut an alley that is not improved  
    but is in common usage, when an existing alley meets the minimum  
    right-of-way width established in subsection D of this section, the  
    following requirements shall be met:  
  
    1.  When the alley is used for access to parking spaces, open  
    storage, or loading berths on a lot, the following improvements shall  
    be provided:  
  
    a.  For the following types of projects, the entire width of the  
    portion of the alley abutting the lot, and the portion of the alley  
    between the lot and a connecting street, shall be improved to at  
    least the equivalent of a crushed rock surface, according to the  
    Street Improvement Manual. The applicant may choose the street to  
    which the improvements will be installed. If the alley does not  
    extend from street to street, and the connecting street is an  
    arterial designated on Exhibit 23.53.015 A , either the remainder of  
    the alley shall be improved so that it is passable to a passenger  
    vehicle, or a turnaround shall be provided. The turnaround may be  
    provided by easement.  
  
    (1)  Residential structures with fewer than ten (10) units;  
  
    (2)  The following uses when they are smaller than seven hundred  
    fifty (750) square feet of gross floor area: fast-food  
    restaurants, major and minor vehicle repair uses, and multipurpose  
    convenience stores;  
  
    (3)  Nonresidential structures which have less than four thousand  
    (4,000) square feet of gross floor area and which do not contain uses  
    listed in subsection E1a(2) which are larger than seven hundred fifty  
    (750) square feet;  
  
    (4)  Structures containing a mix of residential and nonresidential  
    uses, if the residential use is less than ten (10) units, and the  
    square footage of nonresidential uses is less than specified in  
    subsections E1a(2) and E1a(3);  
  
    (5)  Remodeling and use changes within existing structures;  
  
    (6)  Additions to existing structures which are exempt from  
    environmental review; and  
  
    (7)  Expansions of a surface parking area or open storage area of  
    less than twenty (20) percent of parking area or storage area or  
    number of parking spaces.  
  
    b.  For projects not listed in subsection E1a, the entire width of  
    the portion of the alley abutting the lot, and the portion of the  
    alley between the lot and a connecting street, shall be paved. The  
    applicant may choose the street to which the pavement will be  
    installed. If the alley does not extend from street to street, and  
    the connecting street is an arterial designated on Exhibit 23.53.015  
    A, either the remainder of the alley shall be improved so that it is  
    passable to a passenger vehicle, or a turnaround shall be provided.  
    The turnaround may be provided by easement.  
  
    2.  When the alley is not used for access, if the alley is not fully  
    improved, all structures shall be designed to accommodate the grade  
    of the future alley improvements, and a no-protest agreement to  
    future alley improvements shall be required, as authorized by RCW  
    Chapter 35.43. The agreement shall be recorded with the King County  
    Department of Records and Elections.  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 14.  Subsections E and I and Chart A of Section 23.54.015 of  
    the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by  
    Ordinance 120953, are amended as follows:  
  
    23.54.015  Required parking.  
  
    ***  
  
    E.  In all zones, no parking shall be required for the first twenty-  
    five hundred (2,500) square feet of gross floor area of  
    nonresidential uses in a structure. This waiver shall not apply to  
    structures or portions of structures occupied by fast-food  
    restaurants, restaurants with drive-in lanes, motion picture  
    theaters, administrative offices or institutional uses, including  
    Major Institution uses. When two (2) or more uses, with different  
    parking ratios occupy a structure, the twenty-five (2,500) square  
    foot waiver shall be prorated based on the area occupied by the  
    nonresidential uses for which the parking waiver is permitted.  
  
    ***  
  
    I.  Bicycle Parking.  
  
    1.  In L2, L3, L4, MR and HR zones, and the SCM zone, for apartments  
    and terraced housing, spaces for bicycles shall be provided in a safe  
    and convenient location, according to the following chart:  
  
    Number of Units  
  
    Number of Bicycle Spaces Required  
  
    5-10  
  
    1  
  
    11-20  
  
    2  
  
    More than 20  
  
    1 for every 10 units  
  
    2.  Bicycle parking spaces shall be provided by all institutions in  
    multifamily zones. The number of required bicycle parking spaces  
    shall be five (5) percent of the number of required vehicle spaces.  
    All bicycle spaces should be sheltered from the weather, visible from  
    the institution, and conveniently located.  
  
    3.  Bicycle parking facilities, either off-street or in the street  
    right-of-way, shall be provided in NC1, NC2, NC3, C1 zones, and the  
    SCM zone for any new use which requires twenty (20) or more  
    automobile parking spaces according to Chart A. Automobile service  
    stations, and other drive-in businesses except fast-food  
    restaurants with drive-in lanes, shall be exempted from this  
    requirement. All bicycle parking facilities in the street right-of-  
    way shall conform to Seattle Department of Transportation  
    standards.  
  
    a.  The number of required bicycle parking spaces shall be ten (10)  
    percent of the number of required off-street auto parking spaces.  
  
    b.  When any covered automobile parking is provided, all bicycle  
    parking shall be covered.  
  
    4.  Bicycle parking facilities accessory to nonresidential uses shall  
    be located on the lot or within eight hundred (800) feet of the lot.  
    Bicycle parking accessory to residential uses shall be located on-  
    site. Bicycle parking facilities shared by more than one (1) use are  
    encouraged. When located off-street, bicycle and automobile parking  
    areas shall be separated by a barrier or painted lines.  
  
    ***  
  
                                Chart A  
                             for Section 23.54.015  
                                    PARKING  
  
                  Use                         Parking Requirements  
  
    Adult care center1              1 space for each 10 adults (clients) or  
                                    1 space for each staff member, whichever  
                                    is greater; plus 1 loading and unloading  
                                    space for each 20 adults (clients)  
  
    Adult family home               1 space for each dwelling unit  
  
    Adult motion picture theater    1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1  
                                    space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    spectator assembly area not containing  
                                    fixed seats  
  
    Adult panoram                   1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1  
                                    space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    spectator assembly area not containing  
                                    fixed seats  
  
    Airport, land-based (waiting    1 space for each 100 square feet  
    area)  
  
    Airport, water-based (waiting   1 space for each 100 square feet  
    area)  
  
    Animal services                 1 space for each 350 square feet  
  
    Animal husbandry (retail area   1 space for each 350 square feet  
    only)  
  
    Aquaculture (retail area only)  1 space for each 350 square feet  
  
    Artist's studio/dwelling        1 space for each dwelling unit  
  
    Assisted living facility2       1 space for each 4 assisted living units  
                                    plus 1 space for each 2 staff members  
                                    on-site at peak staffing time; plus 1  
                                    barrier-free passenger loading and  
                                    unloading space; plus loading berth  
                                    requirements per Section 23.54.035  
  
    Automotive parts or accessory   1 space for each 350 square feet  
    sales  
  
    Ball courts                     1 space per court  
  
    Bed and breakfast               1 space for each dwelling, plus 1 space  
                                    for each 2 guest rooms or suites  
  
    Bowling alley                   5 spaces for each lane  
  
    Brewpub                      1 space for each 200 square feet  
  
  
    Business support services       1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Business incubators             1 space for each 1,000 square feet  
  
    Carwash                         1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Caretaker's quarters            1 space for each dwelling unit  
  
    Cargo terminal                  1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Cemetery                        None  
  
    Child care center1,9            1 space for each 10 children or 1 space  
                                    for each staff member, whichever is  
                                    greater; plus  
                                    1 loading and unloading space for each  
                                    20 children  
  
    Colleges                        A number of spaces equal 15 percent of  
                                    the maximum number of students present  
                                    at peak hour; plus  
                                    30 percent of the number of employees  
                                    present at peak hour; plus  
                                    1 space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    spectator assembly area in outdoor  
                                    spectator sports facilities  
  
    Commercial laundries            1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Commercial moorage              1 space for each 140 lineal feet of  
                                    moorage  
  
    Communication utilities         1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Community centers1,2 and        1 space for each 80 square feet of floor  
    Community clubs1,2              area of all auditoria and public  
                                    assembly rooms not containing fixed  
                                    seats; or 1 space for every 8 fixed  
                                    seats for floor area containing fixed  
                                    seats; or if no auditorium or assembly  
                                    room, 1 space for each 350 square feet,  
                                    excluding ball courts  
  
    Community centers owned and     1 space for each 555 square feet  
    operated by the Seattle  
    Department of Parks and  
    Recreation (DOPAR)1,2,3  
  
    Congregate residences           1 space for each 4 residents  
  
    Construction services           1 space for each 2,000 square feet.  
  
    Custom and craft work           1 space for each 1,000 square feet  
  
    Dance halls (dance floor and    1 space for each 100 square feet  
    table area)  
  
    Drinking establishment       1 space for each 200 square feet.  
  
    Dry storage of boats            1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Family support centers located  1 space for each 100 square feet  
    in community centers owned and  
    operated by the Seattle DOPAR3  
  
    Floating homes                  1 space for each dwelling unit  
  
    Food processing for human       1 space for each 1,000 square feet  
    consumption  
  
    Gas station                     1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    General retail sales and        1 space for each 350 square feet  
    services  
  
    Ground-floor businesses in      None, maximum of 10 spaces  
    multifamily zones  
  
    Heavy commercial services       1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Heliports (waiting area)        1 space for each 100 square feet  
  
    High-impact uses                1 space for each 1,500 square feet or as  
                                    determined by the Director  
  
    Horticultural uses (retail      1 space for each 350 square feet  
    area only)  
  
    Hospitals1                      1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1  
                                    additional space for each 5 employees;  
                                    plus 1 space for each 6 beds  
  
    Hotels                          1 space for each 4 sleeping rooms or  
                                    suites  
  
    Institute for advanced study1   1 space for each 1,000 square feet of  
                                    administrative offices and similar  
                                    spaces; plus  
                                    1 space for each 10 fixed seats in all  
                                    auditoria and public assembly rooms; or  
                                    1 space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    public assembly area not containing  
                                    fixed seats  
  
    Institutes for advanced study   3.5 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of  
    in single-family zones          office space; plus  
    (existing)                      10 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of  
                                    additional building footprint to house  
                                    and support conference center  
                                    activities; or  
                                    37 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of  
                                    actual conference rooms to be  
                                    constructed, whichever is greater  
  
    Kennel                          1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Lecture and meeting hall        1 space for each 8 fixed seats or  
                                    1 space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    spectator assembly area not containing  
                                    fixed seats  
  
    Library10                       1 space for each 80 square feet of floor  
                                    area of all auditoria and public meeting  
                                    rooms; plus 1 space for each 500 square  
                                    feet of floor area, excluding auditoria  
                                    and public meeting rooms  
  
    Major durables, sales,          1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
    service, and rental  
  
    Manufacturing, general          1 space for each 1,500 square feet  
  
    Manufacturing, heavy            1 space for each 1,500 square feet  
  
    Manufacturing, light            1 space for each 1,500 square feet  
  
    Marine service station          1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Medical services                1 space for each 350 square feet  
  
    Miniature golf                  1 space for each 2 holes  
  
    Mini-warehouse                  1 space for each 30 storage units  
  
    Mobile home park                1 space for each mobile home  
  
    Mortuary services               1 space for each 350 square feet  
  
    Motels                          1 space for each sleeping room or suite  
  
    Motion picture studio           1 space for each 1,500 square feet  
  
    Motion picture theater          1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1  
                                    space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    spectator assembly area not containing  
                                    fixed seats  
  
    Multifamily uses, 4        Development sites containing 2-10  
    except as otherwise provided    dwelling units:  
    below13                         1.1 spaces for each dwelling unit  
                                    Development sites containing 11-30  
                                    dwelling units:  
                                    1.15 spaces for each dwelling unit  
                                    Development sites containing 31-60  
                                    dwelling units:  
                                    1.2 spaces for each dwelling unit  
                                    Development sites containing more than  
                                    60 dwelling units:  
                                    1.25 spaces for each dwelling unit  
                                    In addition, for all multifamily uses  
                                    whose average gross floor area per  
                                    dwelling unit, excluding decks and all  
                                    portions of a structure shared by  
                                    multiple dwelling units,  exceeds  
                                    500 square feet, an additional .0002  
                                    spaces per square foot in excess of 500  
                                    shall be required up to a maximum  
                                    additional .15 spaces per dwelling unit;  
                                    and  
                                    When at least 50 percent of the dwelling  
                                    units in a multifamily use have 3  
                                    bedrooms, an additional .25 spaces per  
                                    bedroom for each unit with 3 bedrooms  
                                    shall be required; and  
                                    Any multifamily use that contains a  
                                    dwelling unit with 4 or more bedrooms  
                                    shall be required to provide an  
                                    additional .25 spaces per bedroom for  
                                    each unit with 4 or more bedrooms5  
  
    Multifamily uses containing     1.5 spaces per unit with 2 or more  
    dwelling units with 2 or more   bedrooms. The requirement for units with  
    bedrooms, when within the area  3 or more bedrooms contained above shall  
    impacted by the University of   also apply. All other requirements for  
    Washington as shown on Map A    units with fewer than 2 bedrooms shall  
    following this section, unless  be as contained above5  
    another provision below allows  
    fewer parking spaces  
  
    Multifamily uses, when within   1.5 spaces for each dwelling unit  
    the Alki area as shown on Map  
    B following this section,  
    unless another provision below  
    allows fewer parking spaces  
  
    Multifamily uses, for           1 space for each dwelling unit  
    development sites that contain  
    a total of 10 or fewer  
    dwelling units, all in  
    ground-related structures  
  
    Multifamily uses, when located  0.33 space for each dwelling unit with 2  
    in Center City                  or fewer bedrooms, and 0.5 space for  
    neighborhoods12, for each       each dwelling unit with 3 or more  
    dwelling unit rented to and     bedrooms  
    occupied by a household with  
    an income at time of its  
    initial occupancy at or below  
    30 percent of the median  
    family income, adjusted for  
    household size, for the  
    Seattle-Bellevue-Everett  
    Primary Metropolitan  
    Statistical Area, as defined  
    by the United States  
    Department of Housing and  
    Urban Development (HUD) 14,  
    for the life of the building  
  
    Multifamily uses, when located  0.5 space for each dwelling unit with 2  
    in Center City                  or fewer bedrooms, and 1 space for each  
    neighborhoods12, for each       dwelling unit with 3 or more bedrooms  
    dwelling unit rented to and  
    occupied by a household with  
    an income at time of its  
    initial occupancy of between  
    30 and 50 percent of the  
    median family income, adjusted  
    for household size, for the  
    Seattle-Bellevue-Everett  
    Primary Metropolitan  
    Statistical Area, as defined  
    by HUD14, for the life of the  
    building  
  
    Multifamily uses, when located  0.33 space for each dwelling unit with 2  
    outside of Center City          or fewer bedrooms, and 1 space for each  
    neighborhoods12, for each       dwelling unit with 3 or more bedrooms  
    dwelling unit rented to and  
    occupied by a household with  
    an income at time of its  
    initial occupancy at or below  
    30 percent of the median  
    family income, adjusted for  
    household size, for the  
    Seattle-Bellevue-Everett  
    Primary Metropolitan  
    Statistical Area, as defined  
    by HUD14, for the life of the  
    building  
  
    Multifamily uses, when located  0.75 spaces for each dwelling unit  
    outside of Center City  
    neighborhoods12, for each  
    dwelling unit with 2 or fewer  
    bedrooms rented to and  
    occupied by a household with  
    an income at time of its  
    initial occupancy of between  
    30 and 50 percent of the  
    median family income, adjusted  
    for household size, for the  
    Seattle-Bellevue-Everett  
    Primary Metropolitan  
    Statistical Area, as defined  
    by HUD14, for the life of the  
    building    
       
  
    Multifamily uses occupied by    1 space for each 6 dwelling units  
    low-income elderly households  
  
    Multifamily uses occupied by    1 space for each 4 dwelling units  
    low-income disabled households  
  
    Multifamily uses occupied by    1 space for each 5 dwelling units  
    low-income elderly/low-income  
    disabled households  
  
    Multifamily uses, when within   1 space for each dwelling unit  
    the Seattle Cascade Mixed zone  
    or the Pike/Pine Overlay  
    District  
  
    Multifamily uses, when within   1 space for every 2 dwelling units  
    the Pike/Pine Overlay  
    District, for each dwelling  
    unit rented to and occupied by  
    a household with an income at  
    time of its initial occupancy  
    at or below 60 percent of the  
    median family income, adjusted  
    for household size, for the  
    Seattle-Bellevue-Everett  
    Primary Metropolitan  
    Statistical Area, as defined  
    by HUD, at rent not exceeding  
    30 percent of 60 percent of  
    median family income, adjusted  
    for household size, for the  
    life of the building  
  
    Multipurpose convenience store  1 space for each 350 square feet  
  
    Museum1                         1 space for each 80 square feet of all  
                                    auditoria and public assembly rooms, not  
                                    containing fixed seats; or 1 space for  
                                    every 10 fixed seats for floor area  
                                    containing fixed seats; plus 1 space for  
                                    each 250 square feet of other gross  
                                    floor area open to the public  
  
    Nonhousehold sales and          1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
    services, except sales,  
    service and rental of office  
    equipment  
  
    Nursing homes6                  1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1  
                                    additional space for each 3 employees;  
                                    plus 1 space for each 6 beds  
  
    Office, administrative          1 space for each 1,000 square feet  
  
    Office, customer service        1 space for each 350 square feet  
  
    Outdoor storage                 1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Parks                           None  
  
    Participant sports and          1 space for each 350 square feet  
    recreation, indoor or  
    outdoor, unless otherwise  
    specified  
  
    Passenger terminals (waiting    1 space for each 100 square feet  
    area)  
  
    Performing arts theater         1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1  
                                    space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    spectator assembly area not containing  
                                    fixed seats  
  
    Personal transportation         1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
    services  
  
    Playgrounds                     None  
  
    Power plants                    1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Private club1                   1 space for each 80 square feet of floor  
                                    area of all auditoria and public  
                                    assembly rooms not containing fixed  
                                    seats; or  
                                    1 space for every 8 fixed seats for  
                                    floor area containing fixed seats; or  
                                    if no auditorium or assembly room, 1  
                                    space for each 350 square feet,  
                                    excluding ball courts  
  
    Railroad rights-of-way          None  
  
    Railroad switchyard with or     1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
    without mechanized hump  
  
    Recreational marinas            1 space for each 75 lineal feet of  
                                    moorage  
  
    Recycling center                1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Recycling collection station    None  
  
    Religious facility1             1 space for each 80 square feet of all  
                                    auditoria and public assembly rooms  
  
    Research and development        1 space for each 1,000 square feet  
    laboratory  
  
    Restaurant                      1 space for each 200 square feet  
  
    Restaurant, fast-food        1 space for each 100 square feet  
  
    Sale and rental of large boats  1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Sale and rental of motorized    1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
    vehicles  
  
    Sale of boat parts and          1 space for each 350 square feet  
    accessories  
  
    Sale of heating fuel            1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Sales, service and rental of    1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
    commercial equipment  
  
    Sales, service and rental of    1 space for each 350 square feet  
    office equipment  
  
    Salvage yard                    1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    School, private elementary and  1 space for each 80 square feet of all  
    secondary1,2                    auditoria and public assembly rooms, or  
                                    if no auditorium or assembly room, 1  
                                    space for each staff member  
  
    School, public elementary and   1 space for each 80 square feet of all  
    secondary 1,2,7                 auditoria or public assembly rooms, or 1  
                                    space for every 8 fixed seats in  
                                    auditoria or public assembly rooms,  
                                    containing fixed seats, for new public  
                                    schools on a new or existing public  
                                    school site  
  
    Sewage treatment plant          1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Single-family dwelling units    1 space for each dwelling unit  
  
    Skating rink (rink area)        1 space for each 100 square feet  
  
    Solid waste transfer station    1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Specialty food stores           1 space for each 350 square feet  
  
    Spectator sports facility11     1 space for each 10 fixed seats or 1  
                                    space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    spectator assembly area not containing  
                                    fixed seats  
  
    Sport range                     1 space for each 2 stations  
  
    Swimming pool (water area)      1 space for each 150 square feet  
  
    Taverns                    1 space for each 200 square feet  
  
    Transit vehicle base            1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Universities8                   A number of spaces equal to 15 percent  
                                    of the maximum number of students  
                                    present at peak hour; plus 30 percent of  
                                    the number of employees present at peak  
                                    hour; plus 1 space for each 100 square  
                                    feet of spectator assembly area in  
                                    outdoor spectator sports facilities  
  
    Utility service uses            1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Vehicle and vessel repair       1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Vocational or fine arts school  1 space for each 2 faculty plus  
                                    full-time employees; plus 1 space for  
                                    each 5 students (based on the maximum  
                                    number of students in attendance at any  
                                    one time)  
  
    Warehouse                       1 space for each 1,500 square feet  
  
    Wholesale showroom              1 space for each 1,500 square feet  
  
    Work-release centers            1 space for each 2 full-time staff  
                                    members; plus 1 space for each 5  
                                    residents; plus 1 space for each vehicle  
                                    operated in connection with the  
                                    work-release center  
  
    1 When permitted in single-family zones as a conditional use, the  
    Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section  
    23.44.022; when permitted in multifamily zones as a conditional use,  
    the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section  
    23.45.122. The Director, in consultation with the Director of the  
    Seattle Department of Transportation, may allow adult care and  
    childcare centers locating in existing structures to provide loading  
    and unloading spaces on-street when no other alternative exists.  
  
    2 Indoor gymnasiums shall not be considered ball courts, nor shall  
    they be considered auditoria or public assembly rooms unless they  
    contain bleachers (fixed seats). If the gymnasium contains bleachers,  
    the parking requirement for the entire gymnasium shall be one (1)  
    parking space for every eight (8) fixed seats.  Each twenty (20)  
    inches of width of bleachers shall be counted as one (1) fixed seat  
    for the purposes of determining parking requirements. If the  
    gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a school, there is no  
    parking requirement for the gymnasium. If the gymnasium does not  
    contain bleachers and is in a community center, the parking  
    requirement shall be one (1) space for each three hundred fifty (350)  
    square feet.  If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a  
    community center owned and operated by the Department of Parks and  
    Recreation (DOPAR), the parking requirement shall be one (1) space  
    for each five hundred fifty-five (555) square feet.  
  
    3 When family support centers are located within community centers  
    owned and operated by DOPAR, the Director may lower the combined  
    parking requirement by up to a maximum of fifteen (15) percent,  
    pursuant to Section 23.54.020 I.  
  
    4 Parking spaces required for multifamily uses may be provided as  
    tandem spaces according to subsection B of Section 23.54.020.  
  
    5Bedroom-Any habitable room as defined by the Building Code that, in  
    the determination of the Director, is capable of being used as a  
    bedroom.  
  
    6When specified in single-family zones, Section 23.44.015, the  
    Director may waive some or all of the parking requirements.  
  
    7For public schools, when an auditorium or other place of assembly is  
    demolished and a new one built in its place, parking requirements  
    shall be determined based on the new construction. When an existing  
    public school on an existing public school site is remodeled,  
    additional parking is required if any auditorium or other place of  
    assembly is expanded or additional fixed seats are added. Additional  
    parking is required as shown on Chart A for the increase in floor  
    area or increase in number of seats only. If the parking requirement  
    for the increased area or seating is ten (10) percent or less than  
    that for the existing auditorium or other place of assembly, then no  
    additional parking shall be required.  
  
    8 Development standards departure may be granted or required pursuant  
    to the procedures and criteria set forth in Chapter 23.79 to reduce  
    the required or permitted number of parking spaces.  
  
    9 A child care facility, when co-located with an assisted living  
    facility, may count the passenger load/unload space required for the  
    assisted living facility toward its required passenger load/unload  
    spaces.  
  
    10 When a library is permitted in single-family zones as a  
    conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements  
    pursuant to Section 23.44.022; when a library is permitted in  
    multifamily zones as a conditional use, the Director may modify the  
    parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45.122; and when a  
    library is permitted in commercial zones, the Director may modify the  
    parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.44.022 L.  
  
    11 Required parking for spectator sports facilities or exhibition  
    halls must be available when the facility or exhibition hall is in  
    use. A facility shall be considered to be "in use" during the period  
    beginning three (3) hours before an event is scheduled to begin and  
    ending one (1) hour after a scheduled event is expected to end. For  
    sports events of variable or uncertain duration, the expected event  
    length shall be the average length of the events of the same type for  
    which the most recent data are available, provided it is within the  
    past five (5) years. During an inaugural season, or for nonrecurring  
    events, the best available good faith estimate of event duration will  
    be used. A facility will not be deemed to be "in use" by virtue of  
    the fact that administrative or maintenance personnel are present.  
    The Director may reduce the required parking for any event when  
    projected attendance for a spectator sports facility is certified to  
    be fifty (50) percent or less of the facility's seating capacity, to  
    an amount not less than that required for the certified projected  
    attendance, at the rate of one (1) space for each ten (10) fixed  
    seats of certified projected attendance. An application for reduction  
    and the certification shall be submitted to the Director at least  
    fifteen (15) days prior to the event. When the event is one of a  
    series of similar events, such certification may be submitted for the  
    entire series fifteen (15) days prior to the first event in the  
    series. If the Director finds that a certification of projected  
    attendance of fifty (50) percent or less of the seating capacity is  
    based on satisfactory evidence such as past attendance at similar  
    events or advance ticket sales, the Director shall, within fifteen  
    (15) days of such submittal, notify the facility operator that a  
    reduced parking requirement has been approved, with any conditions  
    deemed appropriate by the Director to ensure adequacy of parking if  
    expected attendance should change. The parking requirement reduction  
    may be applied for only if the goals of the facility's Transportation  
    Management Plan are otherwise being met. The Director may revoke or  
    modify a parking requirement reduction approval during a series, if  
    projected attendance is exceeded.  
  
    12 For purposes of this section, Center City neighborhoods are the  
    following urban villages: Uptown Queen Anne, South Lake Union,  
    Capitol Hill, Pike/Pine, First Hill and 12th Avenue, as shown in the  
    City of Seattle Comprehensive Plan.  
  
    13 These general requirements for multifamily uses are superseded to  
    the extent that a use, structure or development qualifies for either  
    a greater or a lesser parking requirement under any provision below.  
    To the extent that more than one of the provisions below applies to a  
    multifamily use, the least of the applicable parking requirements  
    applies.  The different parking requirements for certain multifamily  
    uses listed below shall not be construed to create separate uses for  
    purposes of any requirements related to establishing or changing a  
    use under this title.  
  
    14 Notice of Income Restrictions. Prior to issuance of any permit to  
    establish, construct or modify any use or structure, or to reduce any  
    parking accessory to a multifamily use or structure, if the applicant  
    relies upon these reduced parking requirements, the applicant shall  
    record in the King County Office of Records and Elections a  
    declaration signed and acknowledged by the owner(s), in a form  
    prescribed by the Director, which shall identify the subject property  
    by legal description, and shall acknowledge and provide notice to any  
    prospective purchasers that specific income limits are a condition  
    for maintaining the reduced parking requirement.  
  
    Section 15.  Subsection A of Section 23.66.324 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 112303,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    23.66.324  Uses subject to special review.  
  
    A.  The following uses shall be subject to special review by the  
    Board:  
  
    Formula Fastfast food restaurants;  
  
    Hotels;  
  
    Planned community developments;  
  
    Principal use parking garages;  
  
    Street-level uses subject to special review as provided in Section  
    23.66.326 C.  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 16.  Subsection B of Section 23.72.008 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 118794,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    23.72.008 Uses permitted in specified areas within the Sand Point  
    Overlay  
  
    ***  
  
    B.  Uses Permitted Within Subarea B as Depicted on Map A Zoned  
    Lowrise 3, Principal Uses Permitted Outright. In addition to the uses  
    permitted outright in accordance with Section  23.45.006, the  
    following principal uses are permitted outright within structures  
    existing as of the effective date of this chapter:1  
  
    1.  Food processing for human consumption;  
  
    2.  Horticultural use;  
  
    3.  Institutions, except hospital;  
  
    4.  Lecture and meeting halls;  
  
    5.  Medical service uses;  
  
    6.  Office; and  
  
    7.  Restaurantswithout cocktail lounges.  
  
    Section 17.  Section 23.84.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    section was last amended by Ordinance 120117, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.84.004  "B"  
  
    ***  
  
    "Brewpub." See "Eating and drinking establishment."  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 18.  Section 23.84.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    section was last amended by Ordinance 119974, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.84.010   "E"  
  
    ***  
  
    "Eating and drinking establishment" means a retail sales and service  
    use in which food and/or beverages are prepared and sold at retail  
    for immediate consumption.  
  
    1.  "Brewpub" means an eating and drinking establishment which  
    produces on the premises a maximum of two thousand (2,000) barrels  
    per year of beer, ale or other malt beverage, as determined by the  
    brewpub's filings of barrelage tax reports to the Washington State  
    Liquor Control Board, for sale only on the premises.  
  
    2.  "Fast-food restaurant" means an eating and drinking  
    establishment, in which the manner of preparation, packaging, and  
    service of the product enables and/or encourages its consumption  
    outside the restaurant, and which has most of the following  
    characteristics: Quick food service is offered and sales transactions  
    are completed within a very short time period; food is already  
    prepared and held for service, or able to be prepared quickly; the  
    menu is limited, but usually includes a main course and beverages;  
    food is generally served in disposable wrappings or containers, with  
    disposable utensils; and/or orders are not generally taken at a  
    customer's table.  
  
    31.  "Restaurant" means an establishment in which food  
    and/or beverage preparation and service is provided for individual  
    consumption either on- or off-premise.   eating and drinking  
    establishment which has most of the following characteristics:  
    Products sold are generally consumed within an enclosed structure at  
    tables and/or at a counter; taking food and drink from the restaurant  
    is purely incidental, except for limited take-out service which uses  
    the same kitchen as the main restaurant and has a similar menu; food  
    is served using nondisposable containers and utensils; and  
    consumption of food in vehicles on the premises is discouraged by the  
    nature of the service. A restaurant may or may not have a  
    separate area, or cocktail lounge, where alcoholic beverages are  
    served without full food service.  
  
    2.  "Drinking Establishment" means a licensed enterprise in which  
    alcoholic beverages may be purchased and consumed on premise; which  
    limits patronage to adults of legal age for the consumption of  
    alcohol; and in which limited food service may be accessory to the  
    service of alcoholic beverages.  Drinking establishments may include  
    taverns, saloons, brewpubs, bars, pubs, or cocktail lounges  
    associated with restaurants.  
  
    4.  "Tavern" means an eating and drinking establishment in  
    which the serving of food is incidental to the serving of beer and/or  
    wine.  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 19.  Section 23.84.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    section was last amended by Ordinance 118302, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.84.012  Definitions -- F.  
  
    ***  
  
    "Fast-food restaurant." See "Eating and drinking establishment."  
  
    "Formula fast food restaurant" means, for purposes of application  
    within the International Special Review District, an establishment  
    required by contractual or other arrangements to offer some or all of  
    the following:  
  
    (a) standardized menus, ingredients, food preparation, decor,  
    external facade and/or uniforms;  
  
  
    (b) pre-prepared food in a ready-to-consume state;  
  
  
    (c) sold over the counter in disposable containers and wrappers;  
  
  
    (d) selected from a limited menu;  
  
  
    (e) for immediate consumption on or off the premises;  
  
  
    (f) where the customer pays before eating.  
  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 20.  Section 23.84.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    section was last amended by Ordinance 120443, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.84.030    Definitions -- P  
  
    ***  
  
    "Personal and household retail sales and service" means a retail  
    sales and service use in which goods are rented or sold or services  
    are provided primarily for household and personal use rather than for  
    business establishments, institutions, or government agencies, but  
    excluding uses in which primarily building materials and/or heating  
    fuel are sold. Examples of personal and household retail sales are  
    bookstores, furniture stores, and grocery stores. Examples of  
    personal and household services are shoe repair, hair- cutting  
    salons, and dry cleaning.  
  
    1.  "General personal and household retail sales and service" means a  
    personal and household retail sales and service use which is not a  
    multi-purpose convenience store, major durables sales and service, or  
    a specialty food store.  
  
    2.  "Major durables, sales, service and rental" means a personal and  
    household retail sales and service use in which large household  
    items, such as but not limited to furniture or appliances, are rented  
    or sold.  
  
    3.  "Multi-purpose convenience store" means a personal and household  
    retail sales and service use in which a wide range of items  
    frequently purchased for household use are rented or sold. Examples  
    of multi-purpose convenience stores include but are not limited to  
    grocery, hardware, drug, and variety stores.  
  
    4. "Specialty food store" means a personal and household retail  
    sales and service use in which food such as salads, deli meats,  
    desserts, baked goods, whole pizzas, and other ready-to-eat foods are  
    prepared and sold, generally for consumption on other premises.  
    Specialty packaged foods, and/or bulk items such as cheese, may also  
    be sold, and the square footage of any area used for seating for the  
    immediate consumption of food shall be no more than three hundred  
    (300) square feet. If more than three hundred (300) square feet are  
    devoted to seating space, the entire use shall be considered an  
    eating and drinking establishment rather than a specialty food store.  
  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 21.  Section 23.84.038 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    section was last amended by Ordinance 120443, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.84.038  Definitions -- T  
  
    "Tavern." See "Eating and drinking establishment."  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 22.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be  
    separate and severable.  The invalidity of any particular provision  
    shall not affect the validity of any other provision.  
  
    Section 23.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    C. Susan McLain/CSM  
    Eating and Drinking Establishments Ordinance.doc  
    January 15, 2003  
    version #1  
    ***  
