* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114567**   
**Ordinance Number: 121167**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with Bank of America for provision of Automated Teller Machine services at Seattle Center.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 2, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 12, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 12, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 19, 2003   
**Committee:** Parks, Education and Libraries   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK   
  
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-CENTER, LEASES, BANKS-AND-LENDING-INSTITUTIONS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114567.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114567  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing  
    execution of an agreement with Bank of America for provision of  
    Automated Teller Machine services at Seattle Center.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  As requested by the Seattle Center Director and  
    recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director is authorized to  
    execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an agreement with  
    Bank of America substantially in the form of the agreement attached  
    hereto and identified as "AUTOMATIC TELLER MACHINE AGREEMENT"  
    (Attachment 1) under which, for a term of five years, with an option  
    to renew for an additional five years, Bank of America shall replace,  
    operate and maintain Automated Teller Machines for use by the public  
    on the Seattle Center campus and pay a rental fee therefor to the  
    City.  
  
    Section 2.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachment 1:  AUTOMATIC TELLER MACHINE AGREEMENT  
  
    Exhibits to Attachment 1:  
  
      Exhibit A - Site Plan of Seattle Center and Location of ATM  
    Facilities  
  
    Exhibit B - Tiered Pricing Schedule for ATM 6b  
  
    Ned Dunn/nd  
  
    ATM Ordinance  
  
    April 28, 2003  
  
    version #1  
  
    Attachment 1  
  
  
  
    AUTOMATIC TELLER MACHINE AGREEMENT  
  
    THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into by and between The City of  
    Seattle ("the City"), acting by and through its Seattle Center  
    Department and the Director thereof, and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. ("the  
    Bank"), with offices located at 800 Fifth Avenue, Seattle, WA  98104.  
  
    RECITALS  
  
    WHEREAS, the automatic teller machines ("ATMs") at the Seattle Center  
    generate revenue for the City and provide a public convenience; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City wishes to have the Bank replace, operate and  
    maintain the existing Seattle Center ATMs, and the Bank wishes to  
    provide, operate and maintain the same;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual covenants set  
    forth herein, the parties agree as follows:  
  
    1. PURPOSE.  
  
    2.  
  
    Subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, Bank agrees to  
    replace,   operate and maintain ATMs and the kiosks housing such ATMs  
    during the Term of this Agreement.  
  
    3. TERM OF AGREEMENT.  
  
    4.  
  
    Unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions hereof, the term  
    of this Agreement shall be five (5) years, commencing on the date the  
    Agreement is executed by both parties.  Provided Bank is not in  
    default and there is no event that with the giving of notice, the  
    passage of time or both would constitute an event of default  
    hereunder, not less than twelve (12) months before the expiration of  
    the term hereof, Bank may request that the parties renew this  
    Agreement for an additional term of five (5) years upon the same terms  
    and conditions except for Rent, which shall be renegotiated.  The  
    decision to renew this Agreement shall rest in the Director's sole  
    discretion.  
  
    The parties acknowledge and agree that the reporting, damage repair,  
    providing of access, payment, indemnification, and audit rights and  
    obligations specified in Sections 5, 7, 12, 14, 15, 19, 24, and 29  
    hereof shall survive termination and continue until fully satisfied.  
  
    5. NUMBER AND LOCATION OF ATM FACILITIES.  
  
    6.  
  
    The City shall provide a minimum of seven (7) sites for ATMs and the  
    kiosks housing such ATMs ("the ATM Facility or Facilities"), to be  
    installed, operated and maintained by the Bank at Seattle Center  
    during the term of this Agreement.  The ATM Facilities shall be  
    located at sites identified on Exhibit A hereto.  The parties may  
    agree to install additional ATMs.  All such additional ATM Facilities  
    shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  ATM  
    Facilities are described as follows:  
  
    1.  Harrison Street Turnaround - an existing Facility to be replaced  
  
    2.  Mercer Street at Founders Court - an existing Facility to be  
    replaced  
  
    3.  Pacific Science Center - an existing Facility to be replaced  
  
    4.  1st Avenue at KeyArena - an existing Facility to be replaced  
  
    5.  Seattle Center House - an existing Facility to be replaced subject  
    to the availability of funds within the capital budget  
  
    6a.  KeyArena - an existing ATM to be removed  
  
    6b.  Restroom Pavilion - a new ATM Facility to be installed  
  
    7.  Thomas Street Kiosk  - an existing Facility to be maintained in  
    its current condition  
  
    7. DESIGN FEATURES FOR ATM FACILITIES.  
  
    8.  
  
    The design of each replacement ATM Facility shall be subject to mutual  
    agreement.  
  
    9. DESIGN PROCESS FOR ATM FACILITIES.  
  
    10.  
  
    A.  Approval Process  
  
    Promptly following execution of this Agreement, the Bank shall propose  
    a design for each replacement and new ATM Facility, and a schedule for  
    installation and construction.  The parties shall mutually agree upon  
    the design and installation schedule; provided, however, that the  
    design of the first replacement ATM Facility shall begin no later than  
    30 days from the execution of this Agreement, and the installation of  
    the last replacement ATM Facility shall occur no later than nine  
    months from the installation of the first replacement ATM facility.  
  
    B.  Project Budget  
  
    (i)  ATMs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6b  
  
    The Bank's adopted Project Budget for design, construction and  
    installation of the replacements for ATMs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, and the  
    design, construction and installation of ATM 6b shall not exceed  
    $140,000.  The City shall approve the design of the ATM Facilities and  
    thereafter, no change shall be made without the mutual approval of  
    both parties.  The party initiating the change shall be responsible  
    for any and all costs associated with such change.  The priority order  
    for installation of the ATM Facilities shall be as follows:  (1) ATM  
    1, (2) ATM 2, (3) ATM 6b, (4) ATM 3, (5) ATM 4, (6) ATM 5, however, if  
    ATM 2 cannot be installed prior to June 25, 2003, it will be moved  
    lower on the priority list and installation shall begin no earlier  
    than June 30, 2003.  
  
    (ii)  ATM 6a  
  
    The Bank shall remove the existing KeyArena ATM at the Bank's sole  
    cost and expense.  
  
    (iii)  ATM 7  
  
    The existing ATM in the Thomas Street Kiosk will not be replaced.  
  
    C.  Cost Overruns  
  
    If the ATM Facility replacements contemplated in b.(i) above cannot be  
    completed within the adopted Project Budget, one or more of the ATM  
    Facilities shall be redesigned, or one or more of the existing ATM  
    Facilities shall not be replaced, so that the adopted Project Budget  
    shall not be exceeded.  
  
    D.  Construction Cost Report  
  
    Within 60 days after the completion of ATM Facilities 1, 2, 3, 4, 5  
    and 6b, the Bank shall provide the Seattle Center Associate Director  
    of Event Production with a written report detailing the construction  
    cost of each such ATM Facility.  
  
    11. OPERATION OF ATMs.  
  
    12.  
  
    The Bank shall provide, at its sole expense, all outgoing  
    telecommunications services, cash replenishing and supplies for the  
    ATMs.  The City shall pay for electricity for the ATM Facilities.  
  
    13. MAINTENANCE.  
  
    14.  
  
    Except as specifically provided elsewhere in this Agreement, the Bank  
    shall perform all maintenance on the ATM Facilities, including  
    remedial maintenance (which includes vandalism), preventative  
    maintenance, cleaning of the ATM Facilities, replacement of burned out  
    or broken ATM Facility lighting, and routine service tasks such as  
    receipt tape replacement and correction of tape and card jams.  The  
    Bank shall centrally monitor the ATMs' performance.  The City shall  
    notify designated Bank personnel in a timely manner of vandalism,  
    damage or service problems of which City staff are aware to facilitate  
    appropriate corrective maintenance.  The Bank shall commence the  
    repair of such damage within seven (7) calendar days after its receipt  
    of such notice and shall complete such repair as expeditiously as  
    reasonably possible.  The Bank shall replenish cash and other supplies  
    as needed so as to ensure there is no significant interruption in  
    service.  The Bank shall maintain and repair the exterior and  
    structural components of the ATM Facilities.  The Bank shall inspect  
    the ATM Facilities not less than every 90 days for maintenance and  
    repair purposes.  The City shall provide access to the Bank and the  
    Bank's employees, agents, and contractors to allow for construction,  
    installation, maintenance and servicing of the ATMs and the ATM  
    Facilities, which access shall be scheduled through the Seattle Center  
    Project Management Office.  The City shall provide its customary  
    maintenance of the Seattle Center grounds in and around the ATM  
    Facilities.  
  
    15. SECURITY.  
  
    16.  
  
    The City employs security personnel to patrol the Seattle Center.  The  
    City shall include the ATM Facilities as part of the normal security  
    patrol area and shall not reduce the lighting provided in the area of  
    each ATM Facility as of the date of initial installation of an ATM.  
    The Bank may, at its option, install video cameras in the ATM  
    Facilities.  The Bank shall alarm the ATMs and monitor them centrally.  
    Access to each ATM's locked upper and lower compartments shall be  
    limited to the Bank personnel or individuals designated by the Bank to  
    service the ATMs.  Further security issues, if any, shall be  
    identified and resolved jointly by Seattle Center and the Bank  
    security personnel.  
  
    17. CASH OWNERSHIP AND RISK.  
  
    18.  
  
    Bank shall own all cash transported to and placed within the ATMs.  
    Bank shall bear the risk of loss of cash except for losses caused by  
    the gross negligence or improper or willful misconduct of (i) City, or  
    (ii) any of City's agents or employees acting within the scope of  
    their agency or employment.  
  
    19. ACCESS.  
  
    20.  
  
    Bank personnel and persons wishing to use the ATM Facilities shall  
    have access to the ATM Facilities at all times during which the  
    Seattle Center grounds are open to the public.  Except as otherwise  
    expressly stated in this Agreement, the City shall not permit any  
    improvements or obstructions that unreasonably interfere with access  
    to the ATM Facilities.  
  
    21. NETWORK ACCESS.  
  
    22.  
  
    The Bank agrees the ATMs will always have access to a minimum of ten  
    (10) of the following national and regional Electronic Funds Transfer  
    (EFT) networks:  VISA, Discover/Novus, MasterCard, American Express,  
    Star, PLUS, Cirrus, Maestro, Quest, Diner's Club, Cash Station,  
    Interline, EBT, Magic Line.  The Bank may, at its option, add  
    additional ATM networks at any time.  If the Bank elects to cancel an  
    ATM network for reasons other than those stated above, the Bank shall  
    provide written notice to the City of such cancellation (the  
    "Cancellation Notice").  
  
    23. RENT.  
  
    24.  
  
    A.  Amount.  
  
    Commencing on the execution date of this Agreement, the Bank shall pay  
    rent to the City for the use and occupancy of the space provided for  
    the ATM Facilities, the sum of $1,400 per month per ATM (the "Minimum  
    Rent") plus $0.15 for each Banking Transaction in excess of 5,000  
    Banking Transactions per month, calculated on a cumulative basis (the  
    "Transaction Payment").  For example, if five (5) ATMs are operational  
    in the eighth month of the term, Bank shall pay to the City for that  
    month's use and occupancy, $7,000 as Minimum Rent and a Transaction  
    Payment of $0.15 for each Banking Transaction in excess of 25,000.  
  
    As used herein the term "Banking Transaction" shall mean any cash  
    withdrawal, balance inquiry or account transfer.  If, during any  
    month, any ATM is non-operational as a result of the Bank's  
    replacement process, the monthly Minimum Rent for such ATM shall be  
    calculated by dividing the specified Minimum Rent by 30 and  
    multiplying the quotient thereof by the number of days during which  
    the ATM is operational in such month.  
  
    Upon installation of ATM 6b, the Minimum Rent for ATM 6b shall be  
    tiered as described in Exhibit B, until the trailing twelve months of  
    operation average 1,501 Surcharged Cash Withdrawals, at which time the  
    Minimum Rent shall be $1,400 per month plus $0.15 for each Banking  
    Transaction in excess of an average of 5,000 Banking Transactions per  
    month calculated on a cumulative basis with the other ATMs operational  
    at that time.  For purposes of this Agreement a "Surcharged Cash  
    Withdrawal" shall be defined as a cash withdrawal for which Bank  
    assesses a surcharge.  Bank agrees to assess a surcharge on all cash  
    withdrawals to all non-Bank of America cardholders as allowed by law.  
  
    B.  Time and Place of Payment.  
  
    Payments of the monthly Minimum Rent and leasehold excise tax  
    calculated on such monthly Minimum Rent are due and payable, in  
    advance and without invoice, on the first (1st) day of each month.  
    Transaction Payments are due and payable on the first day of each  
    month two months in arrears, without invoice from the City.  For  
    example, on March 1, Bank shall pay Minimum Rent and leasehold excise  
    tax for the month of March and the Transaction Payment for the month  
    of January. On the first day of each month from and after the third  
    month of the Term hereof and on the first day of each of the two  
    months following the expiration or earlier termination of this  
    Agreement, the Bank shall submit a report of the number of Banking  
    Transactions conducted at each ATM during the month that was two  
    months prior to such reporting date to the attention of the Seattle  
    Center Contracts and Concessions office at the address below.  
  
    All payments shall be sent to the City of Seattle, c/o Seattle Center  
    Accounting, 305 Harrison Street, Seattle, Washington  98109, or to  
    such other address as the Director shall specify by notice to the  
    Bank.  
  
    C.  Detailed Transaction Reporting  
  
    The Bank shall, on a monthly basis, provide detailed monthly  
    transaction reports, detailing the number of Banking Transactions per  
    ATM per month.  
  
    25. COSTS AND EXPENSES.  
  
    26.  
  
    Except as otherwise expressly stated herein, each party shall bear all  
    costs for performing its obligations under this Agreement.  
  
    27. AUDIT.  
  
    28.  
  
    The Bank shall permit the City, from time to time as the Director  
    deems necessary, to inspect and audit in King County, Washington, at  
    any and all reasonable times, all pertinent books and records of the  
    Bank to verify the accuracy of the payments previously made by the  
    Bank; and shall supply the City with, or shall permit the City to  
    make, a copy of any such books and records and any portion thereof,  
    upon the Director's request. The Director shall notify Bank of the  
    amount of any over-or-under payments found.  Any over-payments shall  
    be a credit against any fees and charges subsequently due or shall be  
    refunded to Bank, at the Director's sole discretion; under-payments  
    shall be immediately due and payable and shall be delinquent if not  
    paid within ten (10) days after the date of such notice.  
  
    29. RELOCATION.  
  
    30.  
  
    If either party wishes to relocate an ATM Facility to a new location,  
    both parties must mutually agree upon the new location.  If the  
    parties cannot agree on the relocation site, then the ATM Facility  
    shall remain at the original location.  Notwithstanding disagreement  
    between the parties regarding a new location for any ATM Facility, the  
    City may relocate any ATM Facility to a new location upon payment to  
    the Bank of the unamortized cost of the ATM Facility to be relocated.  
    Whichever party initiates the relocation shall pay for all relocation  
    costs.  Minimum Rent shall be abated only for that ATM Facility being  
    relocated during the period of such relocation.  Any ATM being  
    relocated shall be treated as if it were damaged or destroyed and the  
    adjustments to Minimum Rent and the number of Banking Transactions  
    shall be adjusted and prorated as contemplated in Section 12.A.  
  
    31. TAXES.  
  
    32.  
  
    Bank shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments  
    arising from ownership and operation of the ATM equipment, including  
    but not limited to taxes arising out of the rental, sale or providing  
    of goods or services; taxes levied on Bank's equipment; taxes on  
    Bank's interest in this Agreement.  
  
    33. EXCLUSIVE ATM LOCATION.  
  
    34.  
  
    During the term of this Agreement, the City shall not license or  
    permit the installation or operation of a cash machine (other than  
    bill-changing machines), ATM, or other customer bank communication  
    terminal (other than telephones) at Seattle Center, except in  
    KeyArena, other than the ATM Facilities provided by the Bank under  
    this Agreement; provided, however, that temporary mobile ATM  
    deployments during the annual Bumbershoot, Bite of Seattle and  
    Folklife festivals are permitted, at the City's sole cost and expense,  
    with a maximum of three temporary ATMs per festival; and provided  
    further that such ATMs shall not be branded with the name of a major  
    financial institution.  Any other temporary ATM deployment shall be  
    subject to the Bank's approval.  
  
    35. SERVICE PROMOTIONS.  
  
    36.  
  
    A.  Permitted Advertising.  
  
    Seattle Center shall allow the Bank to display on the ATM Facilities,  
    the Bank's name and logo, its products, service brochures and  
    applications, in addition to ATM usage instructions, and the name and  
    logo of each ATM network available on the ATM Facilities.  
  
    B.  Prohibited Promotion and Other Material.  
  
    Except as described in Section 18.A., the Bank shall not display,  
    post, or distribute any sign, symbol, advertising of any nature, or  
    any printed material on any part of the Seattle Center without the  
    prior written permission therefor from the Director; and may undertake  
    such activity only in or on location(s) approved by the Director.  On  
    or before the termination date of this Agreement, Bank shall remove  
    all such signs, symbols, advertising and printed material.  
    Unauthorized signage and displays may be removed by the City.  
  
    C.  Future Advertising Opportunities.  
  
    If either party wishes to use the ATM Facilities for advertising  
    services or products other than those specified in Subsection 18.A.,  
    the Parties agree to negotiate the use of such advertising and the  
    sharing of revenues, if any, derived from such advertising.  
  
    37. INDEMNIFICATION.  
  
    38.  
  
    A.  Bank Indemnification.  
  
    Bank shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from all claims, costs  
    and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees) that the City  
    might be exposed to or incurs as a result of (1) any forms or  
    procedures specified by Bank in connection with this ATM program; (2)  
    any injury to person or property resulting from Bank's installation,  
    maintenance, operation, relocation or removal of any of the ATM  
    Facilities, and the repair or restoration of the location of each ATM  
    Facility when it is removed or its operation is ended; and (3) the  
    performance of any of Bank's obligations under this Agreement.  Bank  
    shall insure or self-insure the ATM Facilities and their contents  
    against casualty loss for their full market value and City shall have  
    no liability to Bank for any casualty losses in or of the ATMs or of  
    their contents other than from the violation of any provision of this  
    Agreement, negligence or willful misconduct by the City of any act or  
    omission by the City, or its agents or employees.  
  
    B.  City Indemnification.  
  
    The City shall indemnify and hold Bank harmless from all claims, costs  
    and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees) that Bank might be  
    exposed to as a result of any injury to persons or property arising  
    out of the use of the ATM Facility as a result of City negligence, or  
    any violation by City of its obligations under this Agreement.  
  
    39. SUSPENSION OF ATM OPERATIONS.  
  
    40.  
  
    A.  Damage and Destruction and Rent Abatement.  
  
    If any City inspection, remodeling, refurbishing, reconstruction,  
    repair, alteration, addition, or improvement work necessitates the  
    temporary suspension of operations of any ATM, the Director shall  
    notify the Bank of such necessity and the anticipated beginning and  
    ending dates of such suspension.  During the period of any such  
    suspension, the ATMs in such ATM Facilities shall be treated as if  
    they were damaged or destroyed and the Minimum Rent due and the number  
    of Banking Transactions shall be adjusted and prorated as contemplated  
    in Section 12.A.  Such adjustment shall constitute the totality of  
    relief available to the Bank, and the Bank hereby waives all claims  
    for damages and for any injury to and interference with its operations  
    or business and losses occasioned by any such suspension.  
  
    B.  Damage or Destruction.  
  
    If any ATM is destroyed by fire or other casualty not occasioned by an  
    act or omission of Bank, or is damaged so extensively as to render the  
    ATM unusable, the Bank's obligation to pay the Minimum Rent and taxes  
    in connection therewith shall be cancelled until the ATM is made  
    usable.  The number of Banking Transactions that must be exceeded in  
    any month to make any Transaction Payment due to the City shall be  
    adjusted and prorated as of the date any ATM is damaged or destroyed,  
    to reflect the respective number of days in such month (a) all ATMs  
    were in operation and (b) the lesser number of ATMs were in operation.  
    For example, if one of seven ATMs were destroyed and not in operation  
    between June 21st and 30th, the cumulative number of Banking  
    Transactions for June that would have to be exceeded to entitle the  
    City to a Transaction Payment for June would be 33,333, calculated as  
    follows:  (5,000 x 7 ATMs x 2/3 [for the first twenty days of June] =  
    23,000) plus (5,000 x 6 ATMs x 1/3 [for the last ten days of June] =  
    10,000).  
  
    41. UNLAWFUL USE.  
  
    42.  
  
    The Bank shall not use or permit the ATM Facilities or any part  
    thereof to be used for any purpose in violation of any municipal,  
    county, state or federal law, ordinance or regulation, or for any  
    purpose offensive to the standards of the community of which the ATM  
    Facilities are a part.  The Bank shall promptly comply, at its sole  
    cost and expense, with all laws, ordinances and regulations now in  
    force or hereafter adopted relating to or affecting the condition, use  
    or occupancy of the ATM Facilities including but not limited to all  
    applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of  
    the United States, the State of Washington and The City of Seattle,  
    including the Seattle Municipal Code ("SMC"), notably SMC Ch. 20.44,  
    and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated  
    administrative agencies and their officers.  
  
    43. CITY'S CONTROL OF BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS AND ACTIVITIES.  
  
    44.  
  
    Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the City, without  
    liability to the Bank of any kind, may:  
  
    A.  Subject to the provisions of subsection 22.I, increase, reduce,  
    and change in any manner whatsoever the number, appearance,  
    dimensions, and locations of the Seattle Center walks, buildings,  
    landscaping, parking, and service areas, and may also make  
    improvements, alterations, and additions to the common areas of any  
    Seattle Center building.  The City will make its best efforts not to  
    block visibility or access to an ATM Facility and to inform Bank of  
    any such pending situation.  In the event such interference cannot be  
    reasonably prevented or corrected, as determined by the Seattle Center  
    Director, then the provisions of Section 22.I apply.  
  
    B.  Regulate all traffic within and adjacent to the Seattle Center.  
  
    C.  Impose a reasonable charge for admission to the Seattle Center and  
    facilities therein, including parking facilities.  
  
    D.  Erect, display and remove promotional exhibits and materials and  
    permit special events on the Seattle Center grounds, buildings, and  
    facilities including the common areas of any Seattle Center building.  
  
    E.  Promulgate, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations  
    regarding the use and occupancy of any area of Seattle Center.  
  
    F.  Restrict or prohibit the parking on City-owned or leased property  
    of motor vehicles owned or operated by the Bank and any of its  
    officers, employees, agents, suppliers, and invitees; provided,  
    however, that the City shall not unreasonably restrict the Bank's  
    access to the ATMs for replenishment of cash supplies, security  
    functions, repairs and maintenance.  
  
    G.  Determine the days and hours the Seattle Center and various  
    business operations will be open to the public.  
  
    H.  Change the size, number, type and identity of concessions, stores,  
    businesses, and operations being conducted or undertaken at Seattle  
    Center.  
  
    I.  Materially change the Seattle Center configuration if the Director  
    determines, in the exercise of his/her discretion, that any portion of  
    the Seattle Center is required for some use or purpose other than that  
    contemplated by the parties hereunder.  In such event, the Director  
    shall notify the Bank of such change at least 90 days prior to its  
    effective date.  If a development project significantly impacts  
    ingress, egress, security and usage of an ATM Facility, then the  
    parties may mutually agree to close the ATM Facility during the period  
    of construction / development and the Minimum Rent and number of  
    Banking Transactions shall be adjusted in accordance with the  
    provisions of Section 12.A.  
  
    If, during redevelopment, circumstances beyond the control of either  
    party occur resulting in the closure of any ATM Facility for less than  
    twenty-four (24) hours, the party causing such closure shall, where  
    practicable, provide the other with two (2) business days' notice of  
    the closure.  No penalty shall be imposed by either party as a result  
    of any closure of less than 24 hours.  
  
    With respect to redevelopment, the parties agree that not more than  
    two ATM Facilities shall be temporarily closed at any one time.  If  
    any ATM Facility is temporarily closed due to Seattle Center  
    redevelopment, the Bank may install and operate a substitute  
    therefore, subject to the Director's approval with respect to  
    location, design, duration, and other matters, which approval shall  
    not be unreasonably withheld.  The Bank shall bear all costs of any  
    such temporary ATM location and operation.  
  
    45. NOTICES.  
  
    46.  
  
    All notices, demands, and other communications between the parties  
    shall be in writing.  Notices, demands and other communications shall  
    be sufficiently given if delivered or deposited in the United States  
    mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:  
  
      If to the City:  Seattle Center  
  
        305 Harrison Street  
  
        Seattle, Washington  98109  
  
        Attn:  Seattle Center Director  
  
      If to the Bank:  Bank of America  
  
    ATM Business Development and Account Management  
  
        WA1-501-27-66  
  
        800 - 5th Avenue, Floor 27  
  
        Seattle, Washington  98124  
  
        Attn:  Gary Badt  
  
    47. OWNERSHIP AND REMOVAL.  
  
    48.  
  
    During the term of this Agreement, the Bank shall own all ATM  
    Facilities, the ATMs, all security equipment and all other personal  
    property and improvements located at the ATM Facilities, except any  
    public telephones and personal property used or installed by the City  
    as well as any City property in ATM Facilities having Seattle Center  
    Information Booths.  The ATMs shall not under any circumstances  
    constitute, be or be deemed to be fixtures annexed to the Premises and  
    such ATMs shall at all times be and remain free of any claims, liens,  
    or encumbrances created by the City.  Not later than 90 days after the  
    expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, the Bank shall  
    remove the ATMs mounted in each ATM Facility, all ATM security  
    equipment, any of the Bank's personal Bank contained within the ATM  
    Facilities, as well as the Bank's logo and the Bank's advertising  
    panels.  Upon removal of such items, the Bank shall repair each ATM  
    Facility to make the same useable by the City for ATM purposes.  
  
    49. DEFAULT.  
  
    50.  
  
    A. Each of the following events shall constitute a default under this  
    Agreement:  
  
    B.  
  
    (i) Failure by either party to pay to the other party any fees, costs  
    or expenses within fifteen (15) days from and after notice of the non-  
    payment of such fees, costs or expenses when due.  
  
    (ii)  
  
    (iii) Failure by either party to perform and comply with any other  
    terms, conditions and provisions of this Agreement, and such failure  
    continues for thirty (30) days from and after notice to the other  
    party, unless the required performance cannot be reasonably completed  
    within such thirty (30) day period and the party has commenced  
    performance in good faith within such thirty (30) day period.  
  
    (iv)  
  
    C. Effect of Default.  In the event of a default hereunder as set  
    forth above, Bank or City, as the case may be, shall have the right to  
    terminate and cancel this Agreement by the giving of not less than  
    thirty (30) days prior written notice to the other party.  Upon the  
    expiration of such notice, this Agreement shall immediately and  
    automatically, without further action by either party, terminate and  
    cease in the same manner and with the same legal effect as if this  
    Agreement automatically terminated on the expiration date of the  
    initial term or the renewal term hereof, if any.  
  
    D.  
  
    51. ASSIGNMENT.  
  
    52.  
  
    This Agreement shall not be assignable or transferable by either  
    party, including but not limited to an assignment or transfer to an  
    affiliate of Bank, without the prior written consent of the other  
    party.  To the extent permitted by the immediately preceding sentence,  
    this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the  
    parties' successors and assigns.  
  
    53. FORCE MAJEURE.  
  
    54.  
  
    The parties shall not be liable for any unforeseeable delay in  
    performance or failure to perform any term or condition of this  
    Agreement caused by (i) fire, (ii) explosion, (iii) accident, (iv)  
    flood, (v) strike, (vi) any regulation, rule or act of governmental  
    agency precluding performance, (vii) any act of God, (viii) armed  
    conflict, or (ix) civil commotion.  
  
    55. CONFIDENTIALITY.  
  
    56.  
  
    City agrees that it will not permit the duplication or disclosure of  
    any information that Bank has designated in advance as "Confidential  
    and Proprietary" to any person (other than its own employee, agent, or  
    representative who must have such information for the performance of  
    City's obligations hereunder) unless the Bank specifically authorizes  
    such duplication, use or disclosure in writing or disclosure is  
    required by law.  Bank acknowledges that City is subject to public  
    disclosure laws (R.C.W. 42.17 et.seq. and must make its  
    records available for public inspection, subject to certain  
    exceptions.  City agrees to notify Bank of any requests that may  
    require disclosure of materials received from Bank so that Bank may  
    take all necessary actions to protect its interests.  
  
    57. ATTORNEYS' FEES.  
  
    58.  
  
    If either party commences an action to enforce or interpret this  
    Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover from the  
    nonprevailing party its costs and attorneys' fees.  If the City  
    prevails, its attorneys' fees shall be calculated on the basis of a  
    private attorney with equivalent years of service in a comparably-  
    sized private Seattle law office.  
  
    59. BINDING EFFECT.  
  
    60.  
  
    The provisions, covenants and conditions in this Agreement apply to  
    bind the parties, their legal representatives, successors, and  
    assigns.  
  
    61. PREVIOUS AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED; NO INDUCEMENTS.  
  
    62.  
  
    The Terms and conditions of this Agreement supersede all prior  
    agreements between the parties regarding the general subject matter of  
    this Agreement.  The Bank agrees that it is not relying on any  
    representations of any nature whatsoever by the City or its employees  
    or agents in entering into this Agreement.  
  
    63. AMENDMENTS.  
  
    64.  
  
    No modification or amendment of any of the provisions hereof shall be  
    effective unless in writing and signed by the authorized  
    representative of each of the parties hereto.  
  
    65. DIRECTOR'S AUTHORITY.  
  
    66.  
  
    The term "Director" as used throughout this Agreement in regard to  
    permission, warrant, consent, approval, rights, interpretation, and  
    discretionary matters shall mean the Director of the Seattle Center or  
    his/her designee.  Action of the Director pursuant to or in  
    implementation of this Agreement does not constitute any official  
    action by any other City department or official that may be required  
    by law, ordinance, rule or regulation before the Bank may rightfully  
    commence, suspend, enlarge or terminate any particular undertaking or  
    may obtain or exercise any particular right or privilege under this  
    Agreement.  Any decision to be made by the Director shall be left to  
    his/her reasonable discretion.  
  
    67. INSURANCE.  
  
    68.  
  
    The  Bank shall, at all times during the term of this Agreement,  
    obtain and maintain continuously, at its own expense, and file with  
    the Agency and the City's Risk Manager, evidence of  insurance as  
    enumerated below:  
  
    A. A policy of Commercial General Liability Insurance, written on an  
    insurance industry standard occurrence form: (CG 00 01 10 01) or  
    equivalent, including all the usual coverages known as:  
  
    B.  
  
    -  Premises/Operations Liability  
  
    -  Products/Completed Operations  
  
    -  Personal/Advertising Injury  
  
    -  Contractual Liability  
  
    -  Independent Contractors Liability  
  
    -  Stop Gap or Employers Contingent Liability  
  
    -  Fire Damage Legal  
  
    Such policy(ies) must provide the following minimum limit:  
  
      Bodily Injury and Property Damage -  
  
      $ 1,000,000  General Aggregate  
  
      $ 1,000,000  Products & Completed Operations Aggregate  
  
      $ 1,000,000  Personal & Advertising Injury  
  
      $ 1,000,000  Each Occurrence  
  
      $    100,000  Fire Damage  
  
    Stop Gap/ Employers Liability -  
  
      $ 1,000,000  Each Accident  
  
      $ 1,000,000  Disease - Policy Limit  
  
      $ 1,000,000  Disease - Each Employee  
  
    B.  A policy of Business Automobile Liability, including coverage for  
    owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles written on an insurance  
    industry standard form (CA 00 01) or equivalent.  
  
    Such policy(ies) must provide the following minimum limit:  
  
      Bodily Injury and Property Damage -  
  
      $ 300,000  per accident  
  
    Such insurance, as provided under items (A) and (B) above, shall not  
    be reduced or canceled without forty-five (45) days prior written  
    notice to the City.  In addition, Bank's insurance shall be primary,  
    as respects the City and any other insurance maintained by the City  
    shall be excess and not contributing insurance with the Consultant's  
    insurance.  
  
  
    C.  A policy of Errors and Omissions Liability Insurance appropriate  
    to the Bank's operation of ATM's and related professional error, act  
    or omission arising out of the scope of services shown in the  
    contract.  
  
    The minimum limit of coverage shall be $1,000,000 Each  
    Occurrence and Aggregate  
  
    If any such policy is written on a claim made form, the retroactive  
    date shall be prior to or coincident with the effective date of this  
    contract.  The policy shall state that coverage is Claims Made, and  
    state the retroactive date.   Claims made form coverage shall be  
    maintained by the Consultant for a minimum of one year following the  
    expiration or earlier termination of this contract, and the Bank shall  
    annually provide the City with proof of renewal.  If renewal of the  
    claims made form of coverage becomes unavailable, or economically  
    prohibitive, the Bank shall purchase an extended reporting period  
    ("tail") or execute another form of guarantee acceptable to the City  
    to assure financial responsibility for liability for services  
    performed.  
  
    D.  A policy of Worker's Compensation.  As respects Workers'  
    Compensation insurance in the state of Washington, the Bank shall  
    secure its liability for industrial injury to its employees in  
    accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of  
    Washington.  If the Contractor is qualified as a self-insurer in  
    accordance with Chapter 51.14 of the Revised Code of Washington, Bank  
    shall so certify by a letter signed by a corporate officer indicating  
    that it is a qualified self-Insured, and setting forth the limits of  
    any policy of excess insurance covering its employees; or any similar  
    coverage required.  
  
    E.  Bank hereby assumes all risk of damage to its property, and agrees  
    to provide insurance for the replacement value of the equipment and  
    all peripheral equipment, necessary to perform the services of this  
    contract.  Any deductible is the sole responsibility of the  
    contractor.  
  
    F.  Bank hereby assumes all risk of damages, personal and physical  
    loss and liability, or injury to its officers, directors, agents,  
    contractors, or invitees, in or about the Property from any cause, and  
    hereby waives all claims against the City, unless it is determined  
    that the City is negligent.  The Consultant further waives, with  
    respect to the City only, its immunity under RCW Title 51, Industrial  
    Insurance.  
  
    The cost of any claim payments, investigation costs, and legal defense  
    falling within the deductible/self insured retention shall be the  
    responsibility of the Consultant.  
  
    Evidence of Insurance:  
  
    A certificate of insurance, showing the Insuring Company, policy  
    effective dates, and the limits of liability.  
  
    All policies shall be written with insurance companies that are rated  
    A-: VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to  
    do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus line by  
    a Washington Surplus lines broker), form and coverage, and primary to  
    all other insurance.  
  
    G.  Self-Insurance:  Bank reserves the right to be self-insured, under  
    items (A), (B), or (C) above, as long as the Bank maintains a minimum  
    net worth of $50,000,000.  
  
    H.  Sub-Contractors - Bank shall include all sub-contractors as  
    insureds under its policies or shall furnish separate evidence of  
    insurance as stated above for each sub-contractor.  All coverage for  
    sub-contractors shall be subject to all the requirements stated herein  
    and applicable to their profession.  
  
    31.  ENTIRE AGREEMENT.  
  
    This Agreement, including the Exhibits attached hereto, contains the  
    entire agreement between Bank and the City regarding this ATM program.  
  
    DATED this ________ day of __________,2003  
  
    Bank of America  The City of Seattle  
  
    By ____________________________  By ___________________________  
  
    Its____________________________  Its __________________________  
  
        Seattle Center Director  
  
    Exhibits:  
  
    Exhibit A - Site Plan of Seattle Center and Location of ATM Facilities  
  
    Exhibit B - Tiered Pricing Schedule for ATM 6b  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  
  
             ss.  
  
    COUNTY OF KING  
  
      On this ______ day of __________________, 2003, before me, a Notary  
    Public in and for the State of Washington, personally appeared  
    __________________________, proved to me on the basis of satisfactory  
    evidence to be the person who executed this instrument, on oath stated  
    that __________________________ was authorized to execute the  
    instrument, and acknowledged it as the ___________________ of BANK OF  
    AMERICA to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said national  
    banking association for the uses and purposes mentioned in the  
    instrument.  
  
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand and official seal  
  
    the day and year first above written.  
  
      NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of  
  
      Washington, residing at  
  
                My appointment expires  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  
  
             ss.  
  
    COUNTY OF KING  
  
      On this ________ day of _________________, 2003, __________________  
    before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,  
    personally appeared the person who executed this instrument, on oath  
    stated that _____ was authorized to execute the  instrument, and  
    acknowledged it as the _________________________ of THE CITY OF  
    SEATTLE, to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said  
    municipality for the uses and purposes mentioned in the  instrument.  
  
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and official seal  
  
    the day and year first above written.  
  
                NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of  
  
                Washington, residing at  
  
                My appointment expires  
  
    04-28-03  
  
  
  
    Exhibit B  
  
  
  
  
    Tiered Pricing Schedule for ATM 6b  
  
    Rent to Seattle Center per Surcharged Cash Withdrawal per Month  
  
      From  To  Rebate  
  
      0  250  $.25  
  
      251  500  $.50  
  
      501  750  $.75  
  
      751  1,000  $1.00  
  
      1,001  1,500  $1.25  
  
      1,501  and over  fixed payment of $1,400  
  
    When the trailing twelve (12) months of Surcharged Cash Withdrawals  
    average 1,501, the monthly payment shall be fixed at $1,400 per month  
    for the remainder of the Term.  
  
    Exhibit B to ATM Agreement  
