* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114588**   
**Ordinance Number: 121191**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to sale of City real property for multifamily residential development, authorizing the sale of Parcel 17 South in the I-90 Redevelopment Project area, at 23rd Ave. So. and So. Judkins St., for $353,000 to Housing Resources Group, a Washington non-profit corporation intending to develop low-income rental housing on the property; authorizing the Housing Director to execute and administer a contract for sale and deed; appropriating sale proceeds for payments to the State and closing costs; and ratifying and confirming prior acts, all by a vote of three-fourths of the members of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 16, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: Pageler)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 26, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 25, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 9, 2003   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services and Community Development   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER   
  
**Index Terms:** SALES, HOUSING, I-90, CENTRAL-AREA, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, MODERATE-INCOME-HOUSING, ATLANTIC  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114588.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114588  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to sale of City real property for multifamily  
    residential development, authorizing the sale of Parcel 17 South in  
    the I-90 Redevelopment Project area, at 23rd Ave. So. and So. Judkins  
    St., for $353,000 to Housing Resources Group, a Washington non-profit  
    corporation intending to develop low-income rental housing on the  
    property; authorizing the Housing Director to execute and administer a  
    contract for sale and deed; appropriating sale proceeds for payments  
    to the State and closing costs; and ratifying and confirming prior  
    acts, all by a vote of three-fourths of the members of the City  
    Council.  
  
    WHEREAS, the City Council by Resolution No. 27901, recognized the I-90  
    Area Development Policies as the basic City policy governing the sale  
    and development of City-owned land in the I-90 project area, and such  
    policies were amended on December 11, 1995, by Resolution 29258; and  
  
    WHEREAS, by Ordinance 116516, the City Council authorized the City to  
    enter into a land transfer agreement to purchase certain improved and  
    unimproved real property in the I-90 corridor from the State of  
    Washington, and such Land Transfer Agreement was executed on May 5,  
    1993 and subsequently amended (as amended, the "Phase II Agreement");  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City's Office of Housing issued a request for development  
    proposals ("RFP") in December 2000, and subsequently received a  
    proposal from Housing Resources Group ("HRG") and no others; and  
  
    WHEREAS, HRG proposes to purchase Parcel 17 South and develop  
    approximately 16 rental homes intended for occupancy by families with  
    incomes between 30% and 60% of area median income; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the proposed development received community support evidenced  
    by a letter of support from the Judkins Park Community Council dated  
    March 19, 2002; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Director of the City's Office of Housing has recommended  
    the acceptance of HRG's acquisition and development proposal, finding  
    the same consistent with the goals and objectives of the I-90 Area  
    Development Policies, and the Seattle Comprehensive Plan; NOW,  
    THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Director of the Office of Housing or her designee  
    ("Director") is hereby authorized, for and on behalf of the City, to  
    enter into and perform an agreement based on the form attached hereto  
    as Exhibit A, with such modifications as the Director shall deem  
    appropriate to implement the intent of this ordinance ("Agreement"),  
    to sell and convey to the Housing Resources Group, a Washington non-  
    profit corporation ("HRG") or to an assignee of HRG approved by the  
    Director (HRG and any such assignee are referred to as "Purchaser"),  
    the property commonly known as Parcel 17 South, identified in the  
    Phase II Agreement as IC Nos. 1-17-04258, 7-17-04011, and 1-17-04006  
    and together legally described on Exhibit B to this ordinance (the  
    "Property"), for the total price of Three Hundred Fifty-Three Thousand  
    Dollars ($353,000.00).  The Agreement shall provide that the Purchaser  
    shall develop the Property to include 16 units of housing affordable  
    to households with incomes at or below 60% of median income, subject  
    to modification of the minimum number of units if the Director  
    determines that a development of 16 affordable units is not reasonably  
    practicable.  The Director is authorized to agree to modifications to  
    the Agreement consistent with the terms of this ordinance. In order to  
    carry out the Agreement for and on behalf of the City, the Mayor or  
    Director is authorized to execute, for delivery upon satisfaction of  
    the conditions to closing in the Agreement, as the same may be  
    modified by the Director pursuant to this section, a Quitclaim Deed in  
    substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.  
  
    Section 2.  The Director is hereby authorized, for and on behalf of  
    the City, to approve construction plans and changes thereto as being  
    in conformity with the Agreement, to grant such consents and approvals  
    as she shall deem appropriate to carry out the intent of this  
    ordinance, and to grant extensions upon terms and conditions that in  
    the discretion of the Director are appropriate. The Director is  
    authorized to execute and deliver such additional documents as may be  
    required or deemed appropriate by the Director in order to complete  
    and administer the sale of the Property consistent with the intent of  
    this ordinance.  
  
    Section 3.  Upon receipt of proceeds from the sale of the Property,  
    the Director, on behalf of the City, shall promptly pay or cause to be  
    paid to the State of Washington Department of Transportation the  
    amount owing by the City for the purchase of the Property, and pay or  
    cause to be paid the portion of costs of closing the sale that is  
    chargeable to the City.  In order to pay for necessary costs and  
    expenses for which insufficient appropriations were made, the  
    appropriation for the following in the 2003 Budget is increased from  
    the fund shown as follows, contingent on receipt of proceeds of the  
    sale authorized in Section 1 of this ordinance and limited to the  
    amount of such proceeds:  
  
    Fund  
  
    Department  
  
    Budget Control Level  
  
    Amount  
  
    16440 Low Income Housing Fund  
  
    Office of Housing  
  
    XZ440  
  
    $353,000  
  
    For purposes of this section, money received from the Purchaser by the  
    escrow agent handling the sale of the Property, when available for  
    disbursement as directed by the City, shall be deemed to have been  
    deposited into the fund named above, and money paid out by such agent  
    from such proceeds as directed by the City shall be deemed to have  
    been expended from such fund.  
  
      Section 4.  Unspent funds so appropriated in Section 3 shall carry  
    forward to subsequent fiscal years until they are exhausted or  
    abandoned by ordinance.  
  
    Section 5.  The Property shall be conveyed by the City "as is" on the  
    date of closing.  The Director is authorized to require such  
    acknowledgements, waivers, releases, indemnities and other documents  
    in such form and from such parties as the Director deems appropriate.  
  
    Section 6.  Any action taken pursuant to the authority but prior to  
    the effective date of this ordinance and consistent with its terms, is  
    ratified, approved and confirmed.  
  
    Section 7.  In accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, the foregoing  
    appropriation is made to meet actual necessary expenditures of the  
    City for which insufficient appropriation has been made due to causes  
    which could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of the  
    making of the 2003 Budget.  
  
    Section 8.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      PASSED by a three-fourths vote of all the members of the City  
    Council the ____ day of _____________, 2003, and signed by me in open  
    session in authentication of its passage this ____ day of  
    ______________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President ___________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Exhibit A: Form on which to base Purchase and Sale Agreement  
  
    Exhibit B: Form of Quit Claim Deed  
  
    Eric Pravitz/ewp/TR/HT  
  
    OH Housing Resource Group 23rd and Judkins ORD  
  
    June05 2003  
  
    version #7  
  
    23rd and Judkins  
  
    PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT  
  
    This Purchase and Sale Agreement (the "Agreement") is made as of  
    _______________, 2003, by and between The City of Seattle, a municipal  
    corporation of the State of Washington (the "City"), and Housing  
    Resources Group, a Washington non-profit corporation ("Purchaser"),  
    whose address is 1651 Bellevue Ave., Seattle, WA 98122-2014.  
  
      WHEREAS, the City obtained ownership of certain parcels known as the  
    "I-90 Properties" from the State of Washington; and  
  
      WHEREAS, on January 23, 1989, by Resolution No. 27901, the City  
    adopted the I-90 Area Development Policies which Policies were amended  
    on December 11, 1995, by Resolution 29258; and  
  
      WHEREAS, the Housing Resources Group ("HRG") is a qualified tax-  
    exempt nonprofit corporation whose purpose includes the development  
    and management of low-income housing; and  
  
    WHEREAS, by Ordinance ________, dated ___________, the Seattle City  
    Council authorized the Director to execute, deliver and administer a  
    real estate purchase and sale agreement, which is this Agreement; and  
  
      Now, therefore, the parties hereto, for and in consideration of the  
    promises and mutual obligations herein undertaken, do hereby agree as  
    follows:  
  
    PART I  
  
    Section 1.  Agreement to Convey Property  
  
      Subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the  
    City agrees to sell and convey to Purchaser, and Purchaser agrees to  
    buy from the City, that certain real property located in the City of  
    Seattle, commonly known as Parcel 17 South of the I-90 Properties, and  
    legally described on the attached Exhibit I (the "Property"), and  
    generally located as shown on the map attached hereto as Exhibit II.  
    Such map is attached solely for convenience of reference and does not  
    qualify in any way the description of the Property, nor constitute or  
    evidence any representation or warranty of any kind as to the Property  
    dimensions or boundaries, or any other information shown thereon, it  
    being the intent of the parties that the Purchaser assumes the risk of  
    any discrepancies or inaccuracies in such map.  
  
    Section 2.  Payment of Purchase Price  
  
      Purchaser agrees to pay to the City the sum of Three Hundred  
    Fifty-Three Thousand Dollars ($353,000.00) (the "Purchase Price")  
    for the Property.  The Purchase Price is payable at Closing (defined  
    in Section 7 below) in cash, by wire transfer, or by cashier's check.  
  
    Section 3.  Conveyance  
  
      Upon (i) the payment of the sum provided in Section 2 and all other  
    amounts required to be paid by Purchaser hereunder, and (ii) the  
    satisfaction of the conditions set forth in this Agreement, the City  
    shall convey the Property, by Quitclaim Deed in the form attached  
    hereto as Exhibit  I (the "Deed"), which is hereby approved as to form  
    by Purchaser.  
  
    Section 4.  Title Insurance  
  
  
  
      The City shall pay the cost of an ALTA Standard Coverage Owner's  
    policy of title insurance for Purchaser, issued by Pacific Northwest  
    Title Insurance Company, Inc. ("Title Company") in the amount of the  
    Purchase Price of the Property, insuring Purchaser as the sole fee  
    title holder as to the Property.  
  
    Purchaser has reviewed a preliminary title commitment from the Title  
    Company, Order no. 484559, dated July 24, 2002, as supplemented  
    through supplement no. ____ dated _____ (as so supplemented, the  
    "Title Commitment," which is attached hereto as Exhibit III), along  
    with all documents referenced in the Title Commitment .  Any claims,  
    liens, encumbrances and defects (collectively, "Permitted Exceptions")  
    shown thereon are hereby approved and accepted by Purchaser, except  
    for the Land Transfer Agreement between the City of Seattle and the  
    State of Washington (the "State") recorded at King County recording  
    number 9305182077 (the "Land Transfer Agreement") listed as exception  
    #5, exceptions #7, # 9, # 11 regarding delinquent special taxes, and  
    exception # 12 regarding authorization for conveyance from the City.  
    Prior to the date of closing, the City shall not further encumber the  
    Property, or permit additional encumbrances to attach to the Property.  
    Upon receiving notice of the Closing date from the Purchaser, the City  
    shall provide at its expense title updates or supplements to the  
    purchaser to cover the period from the original Title Commitment up to  
    a date one week prior to closing.  If title to the Property is not  
    insurable on the date fixed for Closing free and clear of all liens,  
    except for the Permitted Exceptions and any that may be created or  
    suffered by Purchaser, then unless the Purchaser elects to accept the  
    liens or the parties, by mutual written agreement, extend the date for  
    Closing to allow the City or the Purchaser, to remove such liens, this  
    Agreement shall immediately terminate, in which case the City shall  
    return the Earnest Money to Purchaser, and neither party shall have  
    any further liability or obligation, of any kind whatsoever, to the  
    other under this Agreement (except pursuant to indemnity provisions,  
    which survive termination of this Agreement).  
  
    Purchaser may obtain such additional title insurance coverage as  
    Purchaser chooses, if Purchaser pays any difference in the cost  
    between the standard coverage policy to be paid by the City and the  
    increased premium due from any increase in the scope or amount of  
    coverage or endorsements.  
  
    Section 5.  Conditions Precedent  
  
      A.  The following shall be conditions precedent to the City's  
    obligation to convey the Property:  
  
    1. Purchaser shall have obtained approval from the Director of the  
    Office of Housing ("Director") for any changes to the Schematic Design  
    (including the landscaping features), and the Construction Documents  
    consistent with the Schematic Design shall have been submitted to the  
    Director, as provided in Sections 302, 303, and 304.  
  
    2. Purchaser shall have obtained the Master Use Permit for the  
    development of the Property consistent with the Schematic Design and  
    all permits required to commence construction for the Improvements, as  
    defined in Section 101, shall have been issued by the City's  
    Department of Design, Construction and Land Use ("DCLU"), or DCLU  
    shall have given notice that such permits are ready to issue.  
  
    3. Purchaser shall provide evidence satisfactory to the City that  
    Purchaser has the necessary financing to fund the construction of the  
    Improvements as provided in Section 307.  
  
    4. Purchaser shall have deposited with Pacific Northwest Title Company  
    of Washington, Inc. (the "Escrow Agent") for delivery to the City, the  
    sum of money required to pay the Purchase Price of the Property as  
    stated under Section 2 of this Agreement and all other amounts payable  
    by Purchaser hereunder in cash or cashiers check or by wire transfer.  
  
    5. Purchaser's representations contained herein shall be true as of  
    the Closing of the Property.  
  
    6. Purchaser shall have signed the Deed to evidence its approval  
    thereof.  
  
    7. Purchaser shall otherwise be in compliance with all of the terms  
    hereof.  
  
    The foregoing conditions are solely for the benefit of the City and  
    may be waived at the City's sole option.  
  
    B.  The following shall be conditions precedent to Purchaser's  
    obligation to purchase the Property:  
  
    1. The City shall have deposited with the Escrow Agent the Deed and a  
    properly completed and signed real estate excise tax affidavit.  
  
    2. The City shall have caused the State to deposit with the Escrow  
    Agent, with appropriate instructions, a written release of the Land  
    Transfer Agreement referenced in Part I, Section 4 of this Agreement,  
    in proper form to be recorded with the King County Recorder's Office  
    and sufficient to permit the Title Company to remove the Land Transfer  
    Agreement as an exception to title.  
  
    3. At Closing, title to the Property shall be insurable free and clear  
    of all Liens except for the Permitted Exceptions and any others  
    created by Purchaser.  
  
    4. The City shall otherwise be in compliance with all of the terms  
    hereof.  
  
    Section 6.  Earnest Money  
  
      Immediately upon execution of this Agreement, Purchaser shall  
    deposit with the City the amount of Five Thousand Dollars  
    ($5,000.00), which shall be hereinafter referred to as the Earnest  
    Money.  The Earnest Money shall be held in the City Finance  
    Department's Clearing Account until such time as the Purchaser becomes  
    entitled to return of such Earnest Money under the terms hereof, or  
    until the City becomes entitled to retain such Earnest Money under the  
    provisions of this Agreement.  Earnest Money shall be credited to the  
    Purchase Price at Closing. Purchaser shall not be entitled to any  
    interest on the Earnest Money.   The City shall be entitled to retain  
    any interest it may earn on the Earnest Money.  
  
    Section 7.  Closing  
  
    A.  "Closing" shall mean the execution, delivery and recording (as  
    appropriate) of all documents and payment of all funds into escrow as  
    provided herein.  
  
    B.  Closing shall take place on such date as the Purchaser shall  
    specify in a written notice to the City, which written notice (i)  
    shall be delivered to the City at least ten (10) days in advance of  
    the closing date specified in such written notice, and (ii) may be  
    given at any time within, but not later than forty five  (45) days  
    after all conditions required herein to be satisfied prior to Closing,  
    other than deposit of funds and instructions in escrow, have been  
    satisfied, but in any event Closing shall occur no later than December  
    31, 2003, and absent notice establishing an earlier Closing date,  
    December 31, 2003, or any extended deadline for Closing pursuant to  
    this subsection, shall be the Closing Date.  Purchaser may apply to  
    the City in writing for up to two closing extensions, subject to the  
    approval of the Director to (a) February 2, 2004 and (b) March 1,  
    2004.  Any such application must be made no later than 60 days prior  
    to the last date for closing then in effect.  The City shall respond  
    to any such timely request on or before the date 30 days before the  
    last date for Closing as then in effect.  If the State of Washington  
    agrees to allow a corresponding extension to the City of the time for  
    payment to the State for the Property, without an increase in the  
    amount payable exceeding the increase in Purchase Price applicable  
    under this subsection, then the Director shall not unreasonably  
    withhold consent to such extension.  If the State of Washington does  
    not so agree, the City shall have no obligation to grant any  
    extension.  If an extension is granted, the Purchase Price shall be  
    increased by Three Thousand Five Hundred Thirty Dollars ($3,530.00)  
    per month (1% of Purchase Price) for each month that closing is  
    delayed beyond December 31, 2003 unless the first extension was  
    requested because the necessary permits had not been issued in time,  
    the delay is not caused by the action or inaction of the Purchaser,  
    and the Purchaser demonstrates to the Director that its permit  
    applications and satisfactory responses to correction notices were  
    made in a timely manner to allow sufficient time for permits to be  
    issued by December 31, 2003, in which case, the City shall not be  
    entitled to any increases to the Purchase Price for the first  
    extension, if granted.  
  
    C.  At least five (5) days in advance of the date fixed for Closing  
    the Purchaser shall deliver to the City an original of the Deed, in  
    the form attached as Exhibit I but with exhibit designations removed,  
    signed by the Purchaser to evidence Purchaser's approval of the form  
    thereof.  At least two (2) days in advance of the date fixed for  
    Closing, the City and Purchaser shall each deliver to the Escrow Agent  
    for deposit into escrow, all of the documents required by this  
    Agreement as conditions to Closing, bearing all the original  
    signatures called for therein, together with reasonable escrow  
    instructions.  
  
    D.  At Closing, the Escrow Agent shall be instructed to record the  
    Deed.  
  
    E.  The escrow fee charged in connection with this Closing shall be  
    paid one-half each by the Purchaser and the City.  Any taxes,  
    assessments or public charges that are payable with respect to the  
    Property during the City's ownership thereof shall be prorated and  
    paid by the City as of Closing, Purchaser shall pay the cost of  
    recording the deed, the instrument from the State to clear title, and  
    any documents required by Purchaser's financing.  
  
    If the sale fails to close due to fault of one of the parties, as  
    described in Sections 702 and 703 of Part III of this Agreement, then  
    such party shall be solely responsible for all escrow and title  
    insurance cancellation charges.  If the sale fails to close by the  
    date set forth in subsection B above for reasons other than those set  
    forth in Sections 702 or 703, then the Earnest Money shall be returned  
    to Purchaser, and the Purchaser shall pay directly to the escrow agent  
    one half of any escrow fees and title insurance cancellation charges  
    and the City shall pay one-half from the City 's own funds.  In that  
    case neither party shall have any further liability or obligation, of  
    any kind whatsoever, to the other under this Agreement (except  
    pursuant to indemnity provisions, which survive termination of this  
    Agreement).  
  
    Part II  
  
  
  
    SUBPART 100 - COMPLIANCE WITH SCHEMATIC DESIGN  
  
    Section 101.  Compliance with Schematic Design; Improvements  
  
  
  
      Purchaser shall develop the Property substantially as shown in the  
    Schematic Design (Exhibit V), as the same may be modified with the  
    consent of the City as provided hereunder, and in compliance with all  
    applicable state and local laws and regulations.  The improvements to  
    be constructed on the Property as described in the Construction  
    Documents to be submitted to DCLU and Office of Housing by Purchaser  
    as provided hereunder, are referred to as the "Improvements."  
  
    SUBPART 200 - ACCEPTANCE, CONDITION AND POSSESSION OF PROPERTY  
  
    Section 201.  Acceptance AS IS  
  
      Purchaser has inspected the Property and has had the opportunity to  
    obtain inspections and reports of professionals, and Purchaser agrees  
    to accept the Property AS IS, WITH ALL DEFECTS, and ASSUMES THE RISK  
    of any defects in the condition of the Property and of all the matters  
    set forth in this Section. The City makes NO WARRANTIES OR  
    REPRESENTATIONS OF ANY KIND except as may be set forth specifically in  
    this Agreement. Purchaser agrees that any express or implied  
    representations or warranties mad by or on behalf of the City prior to  
    this Agreement are hereby revoked and canceled and shall have no force  
    or effect. Purchaser further agrees that no representations or  
    warranties are implied by any provision of this Agreement or any other  
    words or conduct in connection with this transaction.  
  
    Without limiting the generality of the foregoing paragraph, Purchaser  
    agrees that, except as may be specifically set forth in this  
    Agreement, neither City nor any person for whom City may have any  
    responsibility makes any representation, warranty or promise of any  
    kind with regard to any of the following: (1) the physical condition  
    of the Property (land, buildings, fixtures, or infrastructure),  
    whether or not readily determined by inspection and whether or not  
    information related to such condition is in the possession of the  
    City; (2) the presence or absence of any underground tanks or any  
    hazardous or defective substances or conditions on or about the  
    Property, or on adjacent properties; (3) the history of the Property  
    or activities that may have occurred or been conducted thereon or  
    thereunder; (4) soils conditions or drainage; (5) square footage of  
    land or buildings; (6) encroachments; or (7) location or condition of  
    utility lines.  
  
    Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Purchaser hereby  
    irrevocably releases and waives any and all claims that Purchaser has  
    or may have against City and its officers, employees and agents with  
    respect to the condition of the Property or arising pursuant to the  
    federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and  
    Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or the Washington State Model  
    Toxics Control Act, as amended, or any other environmental law.  
  
    Purchaser and City by the initials below acknowledge that this Section  
    has been specifically bargained for and that City would not be willing  
    to sell the Property on the terms and conditions set forth in the rest  
    of this Agreement without Purchaser's agreement to this Section.  
  
    Purchaser:_______    City:_________  
  
    Section 202.  Changes in Condition  
  
    1. Purchaser has inspected the Property in its present condition as  
    of the date of this Agreement and such inspection has not disclosed  
    any physical condition that would materially impair the development  
    thereof as contemplated hereunder.  
  
    2. If prior to Closing Purchaser or the City becomes aware of any  
    change in the physical condition of the Property or any portion  
    thereof after the date of this Agreement that would materially impair  
    the feasibility of the project as contemplated hereunder or would  
    substantially increase the hard construction costs of the Improvements  
    (a "Changed Condition"), such party shall within ten (10) days of  
    becoming aware of such Changed Condition, and in any event prior to  
    Closing, notify the other party in writing of such Changed Condition.  
  
    a)  If the Changed Condition is caused by Purchaser or its agents,  
    employees or contractors, Purchaser shall have the option to either  
    restore the Property to its prior condition, complete its purchase of  
    the Property hereunder, or both.  
  
    b)  If the Changed Condition is caused by the City or its agents,  
    employees or contractors, the City shall at its discretion (i) restore  
    the Property to its prior condition and reimburse Purchaser for  
    Purchaser's damages caused by the Changed Condition or the City's  
    restoration of the Property, or (ii) terminate this Agreement by  
    written notice to Purchaser, return the Earnest Money, and reimburse  
    Purchaser for all out-of-pocket costs, not to exceed $15,000,  
    directly related to development of the Property and incurred by  
    Purchaser from August 1, 2002 (the date upon which Purchaser began  
    incurring significant predevelopment costs), through the date on which  
    the City notifies Purchaser in writing of its election of termination.  
  
    c)  If neither Purchaser nor the City is responsible for the Changed  
    Condition, which may include, but shall not be limited to the  
    discovery of pre-existing Hazardous Substances on the Property, then  
    (i) if, within fifteen (15) days after the City sends or receives  
    written notice of the Changed Condition, the City gives written notice  
    to Purchaser that the City elects to remedy the Changed Condition,  
    then this Agreement shall remain in effect and the City shall remedy  
    the Changed Condition prior to Closing, or (ii) if the City does not  
    give written notice of such election within said fifteen (15) days,  
    then Purchaser shall have the option, by written notice to the City no  
    later than fifteen (15) days after sending or receiving notice of the  
    Changed Condition, either (A) to terminate this Agreement, in which  
    case the City shall return the  Earnest Money and neither party shall  
    have any further obligation or liability to the other under this  
    agreement (except pursuant to indemnity provisions, which survive  
    termination of this Agreement), or (B) to restore the Property to its  
    condition prior to the Changed Condition and deduct the reasonable  
    cost thereof from the Purchase Price and complete the purchase of the  
    Property, (C) to assume the risk of the Changed Condition and complete  
    the purchase of the Property.  
  
    3.  Any written notice from Purchaser to the City hereunder that  
    Purchaser is prepared to close the purchase of the Property shall  
    constitute Purchaser's representation that it has re-inspected the  
    Property and Purchaser's agreement to accept it in its condition on  
    the date of such notice, whether or not such condition has changed  
    from the date hereof.  
  
    4.  Together with any notice required under this paragraph, each party  
    shall, to the extent they have not already done so, provide the other  
    party with a copy of any reports or findings in its possession or  
    control that disclose the Changed Condition or describe how such  
    Changed Condition would in fact materially impair the development of  
    the Property as contemplated hereunder, or would substantially  
    increase the cost of such development.  
  
    Section 203.  Possession  
  
      As between City and Purchaser, Purchaser's right to possession of  
    the Property (subject to the rights of the City reserved in the Deed)  
    shall be effective upon recording of the Deed.  
  
    Section 204.  Licenses for Entry  
  
      The Purchaser acknowledges that it has been afforded the  
    opportunity, directly and through its agents or contractors, to enter  
    on the Property and perform certain tests, including soil borings.  At  
    any time and from time to time prior to Closing and prior to any  
    termination of this Agreement, the Purchaser may request further  
    access for Purchaser's employees, agents and contractors to the  
    Property, for the purpose of conducting therein and thereon such  
    inspections and studies as Purchaser may reasonably deem necessary or  
    appropriate with respect to evaluating its condition and designing the  
    Improvements.  Purchaser shall make any such request in writing at  
    least 10 days prior to the first date when it desires such access and  
    shall state the specific purposes for entry on the Property, the names  
    of any agents or contractors involved, and the nature of any tests or  
    other activities intended.  The City will not unreasonably withhold or  
    delay consent to such entry for purposes within the scope of this  
    Section, provided that Purchaser, and its agents or contractors if  
    applicable, agrees in writing to terms and conditions substantially as  
    contained in the form of Permit attached as Exhibit VI.  Any such  
    Permit shall state a limited period during which entry is authorized  
    and the specific purposes for which entry is permitted. The covenants,  
    releases and indemnities of Purchaser and any such other person in  
    such Permit(s) shall be in addition to, and not in substitution for,  
    the covenants, waivers and indemnities hereunder, and shall survive  
    the Closing or termination of this Agreement.  
  
  
  
    Section 205.  Indemnification.  
  
  
  
      Purchaser hereby agrees to release and forever discharge, indemnify,  
    defend and hold the City, and its elected officials, employees and  
    agents, harmless from and against any and all liability, including  
    without limitation any claims, liability, costs, damages or fees  
    (including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees and costs)  
    incurred as a result of or in connection with Purchaser's entry onto  
    any portion of the Property owned by the City, and including but not  
    limited to Purchaser's release of any Hazardous Substances thereon,  
    but only to the extent such liability does not arise from the actions  
    of the City.  
  
      The term "Hazardous Substances" shall mean any and all hazardous,  
    toxic, infectious or radioactive substances, wastes or materials as  
    defined or listed by any federal, state or local statute, regulation  
    or ordinance pertaining to the protection of human health or the  
    environment and shall specifically include petroleum oil and its  
    fractions.  
  
    SUBPART 300 - PLANS, APPROVALS, FINANCING AND CONSTRUCTION  
  
    Section 301.   Community Meetings on Design  
  
      If so requested by the Director, Purchaser agrees to attend one or  
    more community meetings to present the architectural design and hear  
    comments from neighboring residents and businesses, which comments  
    shall not be binding upon Purchaser or require Purchaser to amend the  
    design or other documents relating to the Improvements.  
  
    Section 302.  Schematic Design, Approval of Schematic Design by the  
    Director  
  
  
  
      Purchaser has prepared and the Director has approved plans and  
    drawings, attached hereto as Exhibit V (collectively, the "Schematic  
    Design") in sufficient detail with respect to development of the  
    Property to clearly describe the site plan, architectural character,  
    circulation, landscaping features and relationship to the surrounding  
    environment of the Improvements.  
  
    Section 303.  Construction Documents   
  
      Purchaser shall prepare plans and specifications with respect to the  
    construction of the Improvements (the "Construction Documents")  
    substantially consistent with the approved Schematic Design and all  
    applicable state and local laws and regulations.  The Construction  
    Documents shall be sufficiently complete and detailed to satisfy  
    requirements pertinent to application for a building permit to DCLU  
    but also to demonstrate to the Director that the Improvements will be  
    in accordance with the previously approved Schematic Design.  
  
    Purchaser shall submit the Construction Documents, together with a  
    construction or progress schedule, to the Director at the same time as  
    Purchaser submits the Construction Documents to DCLU.  Purchaser may  
    submit Construction Documents to the Director at any time following  
    the City's approval of the Schematic Design and within ______________  
    months following execution of this Agreement.  
  
    Section 304.  Changes in Schematic Design or Construction Documents  
  
  
  
    Purchaser shall notify the Director not less often than bimonthly  
    (every two months) of any material changes in the size, character,  
    design, or exterior surface of structures or in the site plan,  
    exterior elevation or materials as set forth in the Schematic Design  
    and Construction Documents or either of them after approval of the  
    Schematic Design by the City.  The Director shall have ten (10)  
    business days after receipt of such notice to provide Purchaser with  
    written objection to any such changes. Such written notice shall  
    contain a statement of the specific reasons for such rejection.  
    Purchaser may within thirty (30) days after receiving Director's  
    written notice of objection, submit a revision of the proposed  
    changes, which shall be subject to the timely review described in  
    Section 306 of this Agreement, unless the revisions are manifestly  
    inconsistent in material respects with the approved Schematic Design.  
    If the revised proposed changes satisfy the Director's objections  
    stated in the Director's prior written notice of rejection or  
    otherwise satisfy the criteria set forth above, the Director shall  
    approve the revised proposed changes and evidence her approval by  
    endorsement of the same on the revised plan sheets and by notifying  
    the Purchaser.  
  
    If the revised proposed changes do not satisfy the Director's written  
    objections or the criteria set forth above, the Director may reject  
    the revised proposed changes and  then the City may terminate this  
    Agreement by written notice to Purchaser and the Escrow Agent, in  
    which case the Earnest Money shall be retained by the City and the  
    Purchaser shall immediately pay to the City the additional sum of  
    $12,650.  The Earnest Money and such additional sum are intended as  
    liquidated damages and not as a penalty, and together shall be City's  
    sole and exclusive remedy, and neither party shall have any further  
    liability or obligation, of any kind whatsoever, to the other under  
    this Agreement (except pursuant to indemnity provisions, which survive  
    termination of this Agreement).  
  
    Section 305.  Permits  
  
      As a condition precedent to the City's obligation to sell the  
    Property to the Purchaser, a Master Use Permit for the development of  
    the Property consistent with the Schematic Design (as the same may  
    have been modified with the consent of the City hereunder) and all  
    permits needed to commence construction of the Improvements must be  
    issued by DCLU, or DCLU must have given notice that such permits are  
    ready to issue.  
  
    Section 306.  Timely Review of Changes in Design or Plans  
  
  
  
      If, with respect to any transmittal or submission of any changes to  
    the Schematic Design or Construction Documents, Director does not give  
    Purchaser written notice of her objection thereto and reasons therefor  
    within ten (10) business days of receiving such documents, then if the  
    first page of the transmittal conspicuously stated the effect of this  
    Section with express reference hereto, the documents as transmitted to  
    the Director shall be deemed approved, unless the changes are  
    manifestly inconsistent in material respects with the previously  
    Schematic Design.  
  
    Section 307.  Financing Commitment  
  
      Purchaser represents that Purchaser will use its best efforts to  
    obtain an allocation of low income housing tax credits and financing  
    commitment ("Financing Commitment") from one or more lending entities  
    (individually and collectively, the "Lender(s)") to finance the  
    acquisition of the Property and construction of the Improvements to be  
    built on the Property.  
  
    As a condition precedent to the City's obligations hereunder,  
  
    Purchaser shall provide Office of Housing financing commitments from  
    the Lender(s) and evidence of receiving an allocation of low income  
    housing tax credits, that together demonstrate to the reasonable  
    satisfaction of the Director that Purchaser will obtain all financing  
    necessary to complete the Improvements in accordance with this  
    Agreement, the Schematic Design and the Construction Documents, and  
    that no term of any Financing Commitment is in material conflict with  
    the terms of this Agreement, the Schematic Design, or the Construction  
    Documents.  If Purchaser fails to submit a commitment meeting the  
    above-listed criteria by October 31, 2003, then the City may, by  
    notice to Purchaser, terminate this Agreement, in which case the  
    Earnest Money shall be returned to Purchaser and neither party shall  
    have any liability hereunder (except pursuant to indemnity provisions,  
    which survive termination of this Agreement).  
  
    Section 308.  Permits  
  
      The City acknowledges that the redevelopment of the Property and the  
    requirements of this Agreement necessitate that Purchaser apply for  
    and obtain certain permits and other similar authorizations  
    (collectively, the "Permits") from the City and other governmental  
    agencies relating to the Property and the Improvements prior to  
    Purchaser obtaining fee title to the Property.  The term "Permits"  
    shall include without limitation use permits; building permits; short  
    plats and lot boundary adjustments and other similar authorizations  
    and approvals; grading permits; shoring permits; permits for work in  
    public rights-of-way; and utility permits.  
  
      Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to  
    require that the City exercise its discretionary authority under its  
    regulatory ordinances to further the development of the Property, nor  
    binds the City to do so.  The City will process applications for  
    Permits as if such applications were made in the absence of this  
    Agreement.   No consent, approval or requirement contained in or made  
    by the Director of Housing or her designees pursuant to this Agreement  
    shall constitute the approval, consent, or Permit required for any  
    regulatory or other City purpose, nor require the City to grant any  
    such approval, consent, or Permit.  
  
    PART III - GENERAL  
  
  
  
    SUBPART 400 - REGULATORY CONDITIONS  
  
    Section 401. Non-Discrimination  
  
    The Purchaser shall not create barriers to open and fair opportunities  
    for women and minority-owned businesses ("WMBEs ") to participate in  
    contracts and to obtain or compete for contracts and subcontracts as  
    sources of supplies, equipment, construction and services related to  
    the development of the Property.  In considering offers from and doing  
    business with contractors and suppliers, the Purchaser shall not  
    discriminate on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, age,  
    nationality, marital status, sexual orientation or the presence of any  
    mental or physical disability in an otherwise qualified disabled  
    person.  
  
    SUBPART 500 - PURPOSE OF PURCHASE; PROHIBITIONS AGAINST ASSIGNMENT AND  
    TRANSFER  
  
    Section 501.  Improvements  
  
      Purchaser represents and agrees that the purchase of the Property is  
    for the purpose of immediate development of residential complex as  
    shown in the Schematic Design and not for speculation in land holding.  
  
    Section 502.  Transfer of Property and Assignment of Agreement  
  
      Prior to Closing, Purchaser shall not transfer this Agreement or any  
    interest herein without the express written consent of the City, and  
    the City shall not be required to recognize any rights of any assignee  
    to which it has not given express written consent.  In the absence of  
    a specific written agreement by the City to the contrary, no transfer  
    or consent thereto by the City shall relieve Purchaser, or any other  
    party bound in any way by this Agreement or otherwise with respect to  
    the construction of the Improvements, from any of its obligations with  
    respect thereto.  Purchaser shall not transfer title to the Property  
    prior to completion of the Improvements.  
  
    SUBPART 700 - DEFAULT AND REMEDIES  
  
    Section 701.  Default  
  
  
  
      Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, in the event of any  
    default in or breach of this Agreement, or any of its terms or  
    conditions, by any party hereto, or any successor to a party, such  
    party (or successor) shall, upon written notice from the other,  
    proceed immediately to cure or remedy such default or breach, and, in  
    any event, shall complete such cure within sixty (60) days after  
    receipt of such notice or such shorter period as may be provided  
    herein.  In case such action is not taken or not diligently pursued,  
    or the default or breach shall not be cured or remedied within the  
    time permitted hereunder, the aggrieved party may pursue any remedies  
    available at law or in equity, subject to the specific limitations  
    herein.  
  
    Section 702.  Remedies Upon Default of City  
  
      Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, in the event that  
    any of the following occurs:  
  
    a) The City fails to tender conveyance of the Property or otherwise  
    close on the Property in the manner required herein after satisfaction  
    of the conditions provided in this Agreement and receipt of a notice  
    to close from Purchaser as specified herein, and any such failure  
    shall not be cured within sixty (60) days after notice from the  
    Purchaser; or  
  
    b) The  Director of the Office of Housing fails or refuses to approve  
    of Purchaser's Construction Documents pursuant to the terms of this  
    Agreement without providing a written explanation for such refusal,  
    and such failure or refusal is not cured within sixty (60) days after  
    written notice thereof; or  
  
    c) The City otherwise fails or refuses to comply with the terms and  
    conditions of or is in default or breach of this Agreement prior to  
    Closing, and does not cure such breach within sixty (60) days after  
    written notice thereof;  
  
    then at the option of Purchaser this Agreement shall be terminated,  
    upon written notice to the City of such termination, the City shall  
    surrender the Earnest Money to the Purchaser and Purchaser shall have  
    the right, as its sole remedy, to proceed against the City for actual  
    damages, limited to out-of-pocket costs directly related to  
    development of the Property, not to exceed $17,650.  As used herein,  
    the term "out-of-pocket costs" excludes administrative or overhead  
    costs, legal fees to the extent not incurred as part of the financing  
    and development of the project, and also excludes consequential  
    damages of any kind whatsoever, such as but without limitation lost  
    profits, lost business opportunities or interference with business or  
    contractual expectancies.  
  
    Section 703.  Remedies Upon Default of Purchaser  
  
  
  
      Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, in the event that  
    prior to the conveyance of the Property to Purchaser, any of the  
    following occurs:  
  
      (a)  Purchaser (or any successor in interest) assigns or attempts to  
    assign this Agreement or any rights therein or in the Property without  
    the express consent of the City; or  
  
      (b)  Purchaser does not submit Construction Documents acceptable to  
    the Director as required by this Agreement or obtain the permits  
    necessary to allow construction, in each case, in the manner and by  
    the dates respectively provided in this Agreement; or  
  
    (c)  Purchaser, without legal excuse, gives notice that it will be  
    unable or unwilling to close on the Property provided herein; or  
  
      (d)  Purchaser, without legal excuse, does not tender the full  
    consideration for and take title to the Property and perform all other  
    obligations of Purchaser on or before the working day before the date  
    set for Closing hereunder; or  
  
      (f) Purchaser, without legal excuse, otherwise fails to comply with  
    the terms of or is in default or breach of this Agreement prior to  
    Closing and does not cure such breach within sixty (60) days after  
    written notice thereof;  
  
    then at the option of the City this Agreement and any rights of  
    Purchaser or of any assignee or transferee in this Agreement or  
    arising therefrom with respect to the City or the Property shall be  
    terminated upon receipt by Purchaser of written notice of such  
    termination, the Earnest Money shall be retained by the City and the  
    Purchaser shall immediately pay to the City the additional sum of  
    $12,650.  The Earnest Money and such additional sum are intended as  
    liquidated damages and not as a penalty, and together shall be City's  
    sole and exclusive remedy, and neither party shall have any further  
    liability or obligation, of any kind whatsoever, to the other under  
    this Agreement  
  
    (except pursuant to indemnity provisions, which survive termination of  
    this Agreement).  
  
    Section 704.  Other Rights and Remedies; No Waiver of Delay  
  
      Either party shall have the right to institute such actions or  
    proceedings as it may deem desirable for effectuating its remedies,  
    subject to express limits herein.  Any delay by either party in  
    instituting or prosecuting any such actions or proceedings or  
    otherwise asserting its rights under this Agreement shall not operate  
    as a waiver of any rights or remedies or to deprive it of or limit  
    such rights or remedies in any way; nor shall any waiver in fact and  
    in writing made with respect to any specific default be considered or  
    treated as a waiver of the rights or remedies of either party with  
    respect to any other defaults or with respect to the particular  
    default except to the extent specifically waived in writing.  
  
    SUBPART 800 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS  
  
    Section 801.  Assignment  
  
      If the Purchaser shall satisfy the conditions set forth in Section  
    307, then the City will not unreasonably withhold its consent to the  
    assignment of Purchaser's rights under this Agreement to a limited  
    liability company of which the Purchaser is the managing member or  
    limited partnership of which the Purchaser is the general partner,  
    provided that such entity assumes all such obligations by delivering  
    and agreement satisfactory to the City.  
  
    Section 802.  City's Representations and Warranties  
  
      For the purposes of inducing Purchaser to consummate the  
    transactions contemplated hereby City represents and warrants to  
    Purchaser, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date, as  
    follows:  
  
    (a) City has full power, authority and legal right to execute, deliver  
    and perform this Agreement, and all other documents and certificates  
    contemplated hereby; the City has duly authorized the execution,  
    delivery and performance thereof; and has authorized the person  
    executing this Agreement to do so;  
  
    (b) Except as expressly provided herein, there is not pending or, to  
    the best of City's knowledge, threatened  (i) condemnation or similar  
    proceedings with respect to the Property or any part thereof, (ii)  
    legal action of any kind or nature, affecting the Property, which  
    would enjoin or restrict the right of City to consummate the  
    transactions contemplated hereby;  
  
    (c)  
  
    The Property is not affected by any special assessment, whether or not  
    a lien thereon, which has not or will not be paid in full by City  
    prior to the Closing Date;  
  
    (d) To the best of City's knowledge, neither the Property nor any  
    portion thereof is located in a flood plain or special hazard area as  
    designated by any federal, state or local governmental body or agency.  
  
    Section 803.  Purchaser's Representations and Warranties  
  
      Purchaser represents and warrants that it is a duly organized and  
    validly existing not-for-profit corporation and has full power and  
    authority to enter into and perform this Agreement and the  
    transactions contemplated hereby; the execution and delivery of this  
    Agreement by the undersigned individual has been duly authorized by  
    all necessary corporate or other action; and this Agreement is the  
    valid, binding obligation of Purchaser, enforceable in accordance with  
    its terms.  
  
    Section 804.   Notices  
  
      A notice or communication under this Agreement by one party to any  
    other party shall be in writing and shall be effective on the earlier  
    of the date actually received by hand delivery or by mail as evidenced  
    by a signed receipt for certified mail, or three (3) days after  
    deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, return receipt  
    requested, to the addresses listed below for the parties or to such  
    other addresses as the parties may, from time to time, designate in  
    writing delivered as provided in this Section.  Any notice  
    required or permitted by any applicable law also shall be effective if  
    given in the manner specifically required or permitted by such law.  
  
    PURCHASER:  Attn:  James Ferris  
  
    Housing Resources Group Inc.  
  
    1651 Bellevue Ave.  
  
    Seattle, WA 98122-2014  
  
    THE CITY:    Katie Hong, Director  
  
    City of Seattle Office of Housing  
  
            700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5700  
  
          Seattle, WA 98104-5032  
  
    Section 805.  Agreement Survives Conveyance  
  
      It is the intent of the parties hereto that the following provisions  
    of this Agreement shall not be merged by reason of any deed  
    transferring any interest in any real or personal property: 101, 201,  
    203, 204, 206, 303, 304, 306, 308, 401, 501, 502, 701, 704, and 802-  
    821, inclusive.  Any such deeds shall not be deemed to in any way  
    affect or impair any of the provisions, conditions, covenants, or  
    terms of the foregoing Sections of this Agreement or the Exhibits  
    referred to therein, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.  
  
    Section 806.  Interpretation  
  
      Any titles of the several Parts, Subparts or Sections of this  
    Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall be  
    disregarded in construing or interpreting any of its provisions.  The  
    Exhibits are by this reference incorporated into this Agreement.  
  
    Section 807.  Counterparts  
  
      This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each  
    of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such counterparts  
    shall constitute one and the same instrument.  
  
    Section 808.  City Approval and Consent  
  
      The Mayor and the Director are the sole persons authorized to act  
    for and on behalf of the City in connection with this Agreement except  
    where another is required to act by law or by this Agreement.  
  
    Section 809.  Entire Agreement  
  
      This Agreement, including recitals and Exhibits, attached hereto,  
    constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the  
    subject matter hereof and supersedes any and all prior or  
    contemporaneous oral or written agreements, understandings,  
    statements, documents, reports, studies or communications with respect  
    to the sale of the Property.  
  
    Section 810.  Time  
  
      Time is the essence of all provisions of this Agreement.  
  
    Section 811.  Partial Invalidity  
  
      Any provision of this Agreement which shall prove to be invalid,  
    void or unenforceable shall in no way affect, impair, or invalidate  
    any other provision hereof, and such other provisions shall remain in  
    full force and effect.  
  
    Section 812.  Governing Law; Venue  
  
      This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of  
    Washington.  Venue of any action brought to interpret or enforce this  
    Agreement shall be in the Superior Court of King County, Washington at  
    Seattle.  
  
    Section 813.  Successors and Assigns  
  
      This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and their  
    respective successors and assigns.  
  
    Section 814.  No Third Party Beneficiaries  
  
      The provisions hereof are for the sole benefit of the parties hereto  
    and, subject to restrictions on transfers by Purchaser stated herein,  
    their respective successors and assigns.  No other parties shall have  
    any rights or remedies hereunder.  
  
    Section 815.  Amendments  
  
      Amendments to this Agreement may be made only in writing, signed by  
    the City and Purchaser.  Amendments which are not fairly within the  
    scope of Ordinance _____________ shall not be effective unless  
    authorized by ordinance.  
  
    Section 816.  Waiver of Rights Under RCW Chapter 64.06  
  
      Purchaser hereby irrevocably waives the right to receive a  
    disclosure statement pursuant to RCW Chapter 64.06 and waives any  
    right to rescind this Agreement under RCW Chapter 64.06.  
  
    Section 817.  Brokerage Commission  
  
      Purchaser and City agree that no real estate brokers are involved  
    in this transaction or shall be compensated in connection with the  
    sale of the Property or any portion thereof.  If any such commission  
    or fee is or becomes due by reason of the conduct of one party, then  
    that party shall pay such fee or commission and shall indemnify and  
    hold the other party harmless from and against any liability for the  
    same.  
  
    Section 818.  Force Majeure  
  
      In the event that either party is unable to perform its obligations  
    under this Agreement or to enjoy any of its benefits because of acts  
    of God, war, civil commotion, riots, strikes, picketing, other labor  
    disputes, damage to work in progress by reason of fire or other  
    casualty, severe weather, or any other cause beyond the reasonable  
    control of said party (hereinafter referred too as a "Force Majeure  
    Event" or "Event"), the party who has been so affected promptly shall  
    give notice to the other party and shall do everything reasonably  
    possible to resume performance.  Upon receipt of such notice, the  
    affected party shall be excused from such performance as is affected  
    by the Force Majeure Event for the period of such Event, not to exceed  
    90 days, but nothing in this Section shall operate to extend the last  
    date for Closing hereunder.  
  
    Section 819.  Calculation of Time  
  
      If the time for performance of any of the terms, conditions and  
    provisions hereof shall fall on a Saturday, Sunday or City of Seattle  
    holiday, then the time of such performance shall be extended to the  
    next day thereafter that is not a Saturday, Sunday or City of Seattle  
    holiday.  
  
    Section 820.  Voluntary Purchase Offer Federal Funds.  
  
    Purchaser may utilize federal funds with respect to the acquisition  
    and/or development of the Property.  Because federal funds may be so  
    used, Purchaser discloses to the City as follows:  
  
    (a)  This sale is voluntary. If City does not wish to sell, Purchaser  
    does not have the power to acquire the Property by condemnation or  
    eminent domain.  
  
    (b)  Purchaser estimates the fair market value of the Property to be  
    the Purchase Price of $353,000.00.  
  
    Section 821.  Exhibits  
  
      The following Exhibits are part of this Agreement and are  
    incorporated herein by this reference:  
  
      Exhibit I  Quit Claim Deed  
  
    Exhibit II  Map of Property Location  
  
    Exhibit III  Preliminary Title Report with Permitted Exceptions  
  
    Exhibit IV  King County Noxious Weed Information  
  
    Exhibit V  Schematic Design  
  
    Exhibit VI  Permit for Entry  
  
      EXECUTED as of the day and year first above written.  
  
        CITY:        THE CITY OF SEATTLE,  
  
    a municipal corporation of the State of Washington  
  
                By:___________________________  
  
                Katie Hong  
  
                Director, Office of Housing  
  
        PURCHASER:    Housing Resources Group.  
  
                a Washington non-profit corporation  
  
                By: _______________________________  
  
                James P. Ferris  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON   )  
  
            ) ss.  
  
    COUNTY OF KING        )  
  
      On this _____day of _________________, 2003, personally appeared  
    before me Katie Hong, to me known to be Director of the Office of  
    Housing of the City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that  
    executed the within and foregoing instrument and acknowledged said  
    instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal  
    corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and on oath  
    stated that she was authorized to execute said instrument and that the  
    seal affixed, if any, is the corporate seal of said municipal  
    corporation.  
  
      WITNESS my hand and official seal the date and year first above  
    written.  
  
              ______________________________________  
  
              NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of  
  
              Washington, residing at ___________________  
  
              My Commission expires __________________  
  
              Print name:_____________________________  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON   )  
  
            ) ss.  
  
    COUNTY OF K I N G    )  
  
      On this _____day of _____________, 2003, personally appeared before  
    me James Ferris, to me known to be the ______________ that executed  
    the within and foregoing instrument and acknowledged said instrument  
    to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the  
    uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was  
    authorized to execute said instrument and that the seal affixed, if  
    any, is the corporate seal of said Washington not-for-profit  
    corporation.  
  
      In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my  
    official seal the day and year first above written.  
  
              ______________________________________  
  
              NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of  
  
              Washington, residing at ___________________  
  
              My Commission expires __________________  
  
              Print name:_____________________________  
  
    DRAFT  
  
    ewp/OH 5-8-03  Exhibit A to Ordinance - Page 19  
  
    AFTER RECORDING RETURN TO:  
  
    The City of Seattle  
  
    Office of Housing  
  
    I-90 Project Coordinator  
  
    618 Second Avenue, 8th Floor  
  
    Seattle, WA  98104-2232  
  
    QUIT CLAIM DEED  
  
    Grantor:  THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    Grantee:  
  
    Assessor's Property Tax Parcel Account Number: 961126-0943, 961126-  
    0942, 961126-0941  
  
    The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("Grantor"),  
    hereby conveys and quit claims to       , ("Grantee"), for and  
    in consideration of the sum of          Dollars ($.00,  
    that certain real property located in the City of Seattle, King  
    County, Washington, and legally described as follows:  
  
    Lots 10, 11 and 12, Block 2, Seattle Homestead Association, First  
    Addition to Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume  
    1 of Plats, page 129, in King County, Washington;  
  
    EXCEPTING THEREFROM that portion lying easterly of a line drawn  
    parallel with and 40 feet westerly of, when measured radially from,  
    the Rel. 23rd Ave. So. Line Survey of SR 90, Jct. SR 5 to W. Shore  
    Mercer Island, Sec. 1, Jct. SR 5 to Bradner Place S.  
  
    Executed this________day of_____________________, 2003, pursuant to  
    Ordinance ________.  
  
                THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
                By:_____________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    REVIEWED AND ACCEPTED BY GRANTEE:  
  
    By: ____________________________  
  
    Print Name: _____________________  
  
    Title: __________________________  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON )  
  
            ) ss.  
  
    COUNTY OF KING    )  
  
      I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that Gregory J.  
    Nickels is the person who appeared before me, and said person  
    acknowledged that he signed this instrument, on oath stated that he  
    was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the  
    Mayor of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington Municipal corporation, to  
    be the free and voluntary act and deed of such party for the uses and  
    purposes mentioned in the instrument.  
  
    Date:_______________      __________________________________  
  
                NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of  
  
                Washington, residing at _______________  
  
    (seal or   stamp)          My commission expires _______________  
  
                Print name: _________________________  
  
    Exhibit B to Ordinance -- Page 1 of 2  
