* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114517**   
**Ordinance Number: 121119**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and ordering the payment thereof.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 7, 2003   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: McIver, Pageler, Wills)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 17, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 7, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** FINANCE  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and  
    ordering the payment thereof.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    SECTION 1.  Payment of the sum of Seventeen Million, Three Hundred  
    Eight Thousand, Three Hundred Thirty One and 88/100 dollars  
    ($17,308,331.88) on Summit mechanical warrants numbered, 4000661159 -  
    4000663991, plus manual or cancellation issues for claims, and  
    Electronic Financial Transactions (EFT) in the amount of Two Hundred  
    Nineteen Million, Three Hundred Forty Three Thousand, Seven Hundred  
    Eighty Seven and 39/100 dollars, ($219,343,787.39) are presented for  
    ratification by the City Council per Chapter 42.23 RCA.  
  
    SECTION 2.  Payment of the sum of Twenty Five Million, Sixty Seven  
    Thousand, Nine Hundred Twenty Three and 02/100 dollars  
    ($25,067,923.02) on City General Salary Fund mechanical warrants  
    numbered 140001 - 149390 plus manual warrants, agencies warrants, and  
    direct deposits numbered 50767875- 50770013 representing Gross  
    Payrolls for payroll ending date Mar. 25, 2003 as detailed in the  
    Payroll Summary Report for claims against the City which were audited  
    by the Auditing Committee and reported by said committee to the City  
    Council on April 3, 2003 consistent with appropriations heretofore  
    made for such purpose from the appropriate Funds, is hereby approved.  
  
    SECTION 3.  That any act consistent with the authority and prior to  
    the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    SECTION 4.  This ordinance, being an ordinance required for the  
    payment of salaries or current expenses, shall take effect and be in  
    force immediately upon its approval, if approved by the Mayor;  
    otherwise it shall take effect at the time it shall become a law under  
    the provisions of the City Charter.  
  
    Passed by the City Council on the 7th day of April. 2003 and signed by  
    me in open session in authentication of its passage this April 7,  
    2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      President ___________ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    S. Davis  
  
    Audited Claims Ordinance  
  
    April 7, 2003  
