* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114594**   
**Ordinance Number: 121244**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 23.71.008 (Northgate Overlay District) to include libraries and parks as permitted street level uses along major pedestrian streets.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 11, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Licata, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 19, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 19, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 16, 2003   
**Committee:** Land Use   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO   
  
**Index Terms:** NORTHGATE, COMMERCIAL-AREAS, NEIGHBORHOOD-COMMERCIAL-AREAS, LIBRARIES, PEDESTRIANS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114594.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114594  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Seattle  
    Municipal Code Section 23.71.008 (Northgate Overlay District) to  
    include libraries and parks as permitted street level uses along  
    major pedestrian streets.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Section 23.71.008 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    Section was last amended by Ordinance 118414, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.71.008  Development along major pedestrian streets.  
  
      B.  Standards for Required Street-level Uses.  
  
          1.  A minimum of sixty (60) percent of a commercially zoned  
    lot's frontage on a major pedestrian street shall be occupied by one  
    or more of the following uses, provided that drive-in businesses and  
    outdoor storage are prohibited:  
  
           a.  Personal and household retail sales and service use;  
  
           b.  Eating and drinking establishments;  
  
           c.  Customer service offices;  
  
           d.  Entertainment uses;  
  
           e.  Lodging uses((.));  
  
            f.  Public libraries;  
  
           g.  Parks.  
  
           If a portion of the major pedestrian street frontage is  
    required for access to on-site parking due to limited lot dimension,  
    the Director may permit less than sixty (60) percent of the frontage  
    to be occupied by such uses.  
  
          2.  A minimum of eighty (80) percent of each structure fronting  
    on a major pedestrian street shall be occupied at street-level by one  
    or more of the uses listed in subsection B1 of this section or a  
    building lobby permitting access to uses above or behind street-front  
    uses. In no case shall pedestrian access to uses above or behind  
    required streetfront uses exceed twenty (20) percent of the  
    structure's major pedestrian street front. The remaining twenty (20)  
    percent of the structure's street frontage may contain other  
    permitted uses or pedestrian entrances (Exhibit 23.71.008 A).  
  
          3.  Street-level uses shall occupy a minimum of the first ten  
    (10) feet above sidewalk grade.  
  
         4.  All required street-level uses along major pedestrian  
    streets shall be set back no more than ten (10) feet from the street  
    property line, except as necessary to provide open space as defined  
    in Section 23.71.014 C or for bedrooms in a lodging structure, which  
    may be set back a maximum of fifteen (15) feet. The owner shall  
    design the area subject to this setback to include special pavers, as  
    an extension of the sidewalk or with landscaping.  
  
         5.  The principal entrances to required street-level uses on  
    major pedestrian streets shall have direct access to the sidewalk and  
    be within three (3) feet of the sidewalk grade elevation.  
  
         6.  Personal and household retail sales and service uses greater  
    than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet may locate a principal  
    pedestrian entrance on a facade oriented to a parking area or the  
    major pedestrian street. Where a principal pedestrian entrance is  
    oriented to a parking area, an additional pedestrian entrance shall  
    be located along the major pedestrian street.  
  
    In lieu of the additional entrance, the owner may provide a ten (10)  
    foot wide, landscaped pedestrian walkway from the major pedestrian  
    street to the principal pedestrian entrance,  
  
    provided that the walkway does not go through other businesses or  
    parking areas.  
  
    Section 2.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be  
    separate and severable.  The invalidity of any particular provision  
    shall not affect the validity of any other provision.  
  
    Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Kristian Kofoed/kk  
  
    library parks amendment.doc  
  
    May 3, 2003  
  
    version #1  
