* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114521**   
**Ordinance Number: 121146**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Office of Professional Accountability Review Board; changing the frequency of the Office of Professional Accountability Review Board's reports from quarterly to semiannually; and amending Seattle Municipal Code sections 3.28.910 and 3.28.915 accordingly.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 12, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: Nicastro)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 22, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 22, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 7, 2003   
**Committee:** Police, Fire, Courts and Technology   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON   
  
**Index Terms:** POLICE-DEPARTMENT, INTERNAL-INVESTIGATIONS, CITIZEN-PARTICIPATION, BOARDS-AND-COMMISSIONS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Office of Professional Accountability  
    Review Board; changing the frequency of the Office of Professional  
    Accountability Review Board's reports from quarterly to semiannually;  
    and amending Seattle Municipal Code sections 3.28.910 and 3.28.915  
    accordingly.  
  
    WHEREAS the Office of Professional Accountability (OPA) Review Board  
    has been operating successfully for one year; and  
  
    WHEREAS Seattle Municipal Code sections 3.28.910 and 3.28.915 require  
    the OPA Review Board to prepare and submit a quarterly report to the  
    City Council and others; and  
  
    WHEREAS the OPA Review Board and the City Council believe it would be  
    more cost effective and sufficiently timely for the OPA Review Board  
    to prepare and submit reports semiannually;  
  
    NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Seattle Municipal Code section 3.28.910 is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    3.28.910  OPA Review Board to prepare quarterly semiannual  
    report.  
  
      The OPA Review Board shall prepare and submit a quarterly   
    semiannual report to the City Council, Chief of Police, City  
    Attorney, Mayor, and City Clerk for filing as a public record. The OPA  
    Review Board's report shall be prepared in accordance with the  
    following provisions:  
  
      A.  The OPA Review Board shall review and report on the  
    implementation of the Office of Professional Accountability.  
  
      B.  The OPA Review Board's report shall contain a general  
    description of the files and records reviewed, and should include, but  
    not be limited to:  
  
        1.  The number of closed, completed cases reviewed;  
  
        2.  The total number of complaints received by the Office of  
    Professional Accountability;  
  
        3.  The number of complaints by category and nature of allegation;  
  
        4.  The percentage of complaints sustained and not sustained;  
  
        5.  The nature of disciplinary action taken in sustained cases;  
  
        6.  Patterns of complaints including:  
  
          a.  Type of complaint,  
  
          b.  Geographic area of complaint,  
  
          c.  Race, ethnicity, gender of complainants,  
  
          d.  Race, ethnicity, gender, assignment, seniority of officer(s)  
    who is/are subject of complaint;  
  
        7.  The number of officers who have received three (3) or more  
    sustained complaints within one (1) year;  
  
        8.  The number of follow-up investigations requested by the OPA  
    Auditor, the number of follow-up investigations completed by the  
    Department, and the number of follow-up investigation requests denied  
    by the Department;  
  
        9.  The number of contact log cases and line referral cases where  
    the OPA Auditor recommended that full investigations take place, the  
    number of such investigations completed by the Department, and the  
    number of follow-up investigation requests denied by the Department;  
  
        10.  A summary of issues, problems and trends noted by the OPA  
    Review Board as a result of their review;  
  
        11.  Any recommendations that the Department consider additional  
    officer training, including recommendations that the Department  
    consider specialized training for investigators;  
  
        12.  Any recommendations that the Department consider policy  
    or procedural changes; and  
  
        13.  A review of the OPA Director's involvement in community  
    outreach to inform citizens of the complaint process and the role of  
    the Office of Professional Accountability.  
  
      C.  The OPA Review Board's report shall not contain any  
    recommendations concerning the discipline of any particular police  
    officer, nor shall the report comment upon or make any recommendation  
    concerning potential civil or criminal liability of specific  
    employees, police officers, or citizens.  
  
      D.  The OPA Review Board's report shall be forwarded to the  
    President of the City Council, the Chair of the City Council's Public  
    Safety Committee, Mayor, City Attorney and City Clerk no later than  
    the thirtieth day of March, June, September and December  
    of each year.  
  
    Section 2.  Seattle Municipal Code section 3.28.915 is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 3.28.915 OPA Review Board to meet with City Council.  
  
    The OPA Review Board shall present their report ((quarterly   
    semiannually to the City Council.  
  
    Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    President of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    03/20/03  
    v.3  
    t  
