* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114552**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to land use, amending Sections 23.71.014, 23.71.038, 23.71.044, 23.76.004 (Exhibit A) and 23.76.006 and repealing Sections 23.71.020, 23.71.024, 23.71.026, 23.71.028 and 23.71.029 to repeal requirements for a General Development Plan within the Northgate Overlay District.  
  
**Status:** Retired March 28, 2005   
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 28, 2003   
**Committee:** Committee of the Whole   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-PLANNING, NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS, NORTHGATE, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, LAND-USE-CODE  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 30327, 30596; CB 114551, 114552  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114552.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114552  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE  relating to land use, amending Sections 23.71.014,  
    23.71.038, 23.71.044, 23.76.004 (Exhibit A) and 23.76.006 and  
    repealing Sections 23.71.020, 23.71.024, 23.71.026, 23.71.028 and  
    23.71.029 to repeal requirements for a General Development Plan within  
    the Northgate Overlay District.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Section 23.71.014 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC),  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116795, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    23.71.014  Open Space  
  
    A.  Quantity of Open Space.  
  
    1.  In all Commercial zones with a permitted height limit of forty  
    (40) feet or less, a minimum of ten (10) percent of lot area or, at  
    the applicant's option, proposed gross floor area, shall be  
    provided as landscaped or usable open space for all commercial and  
    mixed use substantial development. A minimum of one-half (1/2) of the  
    required open space shall be landscaped open space and a minimum of  
    one-third (1/3) of the required open space shall be usable open space.  
    The remainder shall be either landscaped or usable open space or may  
    be provided in accordance with subsection A8 of this section.  
  
    2.  In all Commercial zones with a permitted height limit greater than  
    forty (40) feet, a minimum of fifteen (15) percent of lot area or,  
    at the applicant's option, proposed gross floor area, shall be  
    provided as landscaped or usable open space for all commercial and  
    mixed use substantial development. A minimum of one-third (1/3) of the  
    required open space shall be landscaped open space and a minimum of  
    one-fifth (1/5) of the required open space shall be usable open space.  
    The remainder shall be either landscaped or usable open space or may  
    be provided in accordance with subsection A8 of this section.  
  
    3.  Open space may be provided as interior or exterior open space  
    according to the standards provided in subsections  23.71.014  B and  
    C.  Interior open space may be used to satisfy up to twenty (20)  
    percent of the open space requirement.  
  
    4.  Reductions to Required Open Space. Required open space may be  
    reduced if any of the following open space alternatives are provided:  
  
    a.  Interior public meeting space or space accommodating a public  
    library, either of which shall be free to the public and credited at  
    two (2) times their actual area;  
  
    b.  An on-site town square, urban plaza, active park, or passive park  
    which meets the minimum size requirements prescribed in Table  
    23.71.014 A and which is consistent with the standards for such  
    features contained in subsection 23.71.014 C.  Such space shall be  
    credited towards the open space requirement at 1.5 times the actual  
    lot area occupied by such space.  
  
    5.  Above-ground open space in the form of a publicly accessible  
    terrace may satisfy up to thirty (30) percent of total required open  
    space. Due to the more limited public access to such areas, such  
    above-ground open space shall be credited at seventy-five (75) percent  
    of actual area provided. Above-ground open space in combination with  
    interior open space shall not exceed fifty (50) percent of the total  
    area required for open space.  
  
    6.  In no case shall required landscaped open space be reduced to   
    less than the minimum percentages required in (A)(1) and (A) (2) of  
    this section. five (5) percent of lot area.  Required  
    landscaping of surface parking areas may count towards the landscaped  
    open space requirement up to the minimum percentages required in  
    (A)(1) and (A) (2) of this section. to a maximum of five (5)  
    percent of total lot area.  Perimeter screening of a surface  
    parking area may count towards the landscaped open space requirement  
    in excess of five (5) percent.  
  
    7.  When an owner proposes substantial development on lots forty  
    thousand (40,000) square feet or less and adjacent to a major  
    pedestrian street as designated in Section  23.71.008, the Director  
    may reduce the total amount of required open space if the owner  
    provides open space on the portion of the site abutting the major  
    pedestrian street. The reduction does not apply to open space  
    consisting of landscaping required for surface parking areas,  
    screening, or to improvements provided within the street right-of-way.  
  
    8.  Northgate Open Space Fund.  
  
    a.  In lieu of providing the remainder of open space, as defined in  
    subsections A1 and A2 of this section, an owner may make a payment to  
    the Northgate Area Open Space fund, if such a fund is established by  
    the City Council. The payment and use thereof shall be consistent  
    with RCW 82.02.020.  
  
    b.  An in-lieu of payment shall equal the assessed value of the land  
    and improvements which would otherwise have been provided as open  
    space.  
  
    c.  Funds received from properties within the Northgate Core sub-area  
    as shown on Map A, shall be applied to open space acquisition or  
    improvements in the Northgate Core sub-area. Funds received from  
    properties outside of the Northgate Core sub-area shall be applied to  
    open space acquisition or improvements within one-half (1/2) mile of  
    contributing sites.  
  
    * * *  
  
     D.  Reduction of Open Space Deficit. When substantial  
    development is proposed for a site, the open space deficit for the  
    entire site must be eliminated, provided that for sites subject to the  
    General Development Plan provisions of Section  23.71.020, the deficit  
    need not be eliminated but shall be reduced by an amount equal to  
    fifty percent (50%) of the footprint of the substantial development  
    together with fifty percent (50%) of the total footprint of any new  
    parking area provided to meet the demand of the substantial  
    development, together with fifty percent (50%) of any replacement  
    parking provided.  
  
    Section 2.  Section 23.71.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    Section was last amended by Ordinance 116795, is repealed.  
  
    Section 3.  Section 23.71.024 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    Section was last amended by Ordinance 116795, is repealed.  
  
    Section 4.  Section 23.71.026 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    Section was last amended by Ordinance 116795, is repealed.  
  
    Section 5.  Section 23.71.028 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    Section was last amended by Ordinance 119239, is repealed.  
  
    Section 6.  Section 23.71.029 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    Section was last amended by Ordinance 116795, is repealed.  
  
    Section 7.  Section 23.71.038 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    Section was last amended by Ordinance 118414, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.71.038  Standards for mixed use development in commercial zones  
    within the Northgate Overlay District.  
  
    Residential and nonresidential uses in a mixed use development in a  
    commercial  
  
    zone shall meet the requirements of Section 23.47.008 to qualify as a  
    mixed use development. The minimum standards of Section 23.47.008  
    may vary on sites subject to the requirements for General Development  
    Plans as provided in Section 23.71.026.  
  
    Section 8.  Section 23.71.044 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC),  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116795, is hereby amended  
    as follows:  
  
    23.71.044  Standards for single-purpose residential development in  
    Commercial zones within the Northgate Overlay District.  
  
    * * *  
  
    B.  Single-purpose residential structures are prohibited in all  
    commercial zones with a height limit of eighty-five (85) feet or  
    greater. , except as provided in Section  23.71.026 B for  
    phased mixed use development under a General Development Plan.  
  
    Section 9.  Exhibit 23.76.004A of Section 23.76.004 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 119974, is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    EXHIBIT 23.76.004 A  
  
    LAND USE DECISION FRAMEWORK  
  
    DIRECTOR'S AND HEARING EXAMINER'S  
  
    DECISIONS REQUIRING MASTER USE PERMITS  
  
    TYPE I  
  
    Director's Decision  
  
    (No Administrative Appeal)  
  
    Type II  
  
    Director's Decision  
  
    (Appealable to  
  
    Hearing Examiner*)  
  
    Type III  
  
    Hearing Examiner's  
  
    Decision  
  
    (No Administrative Appeal)  
  
    * Compliance with development standards  
  
    *  
  
    * Uses permitted outright  
  
    *  
  
    * Temporary uses, four weeks or less  
  
    *  
  
    * Certain street uses  
  
    *  
  
    * Lot boundary adjustments  
  
    *  
  
    * Modifications of features bonused under Title 24  
  
    *  
  
    * Determinations of significance (EIS required) except for  
    determinations of significance based solely on historic and cultural  
    preservation  
  
    *  
  
    * Temporary uses, twelve months or less, for relocation of police and  
    fire protection  
  
    *  
  
    * Exemptions from right-of-way improvement requirements  
  
    *  
  
    * Special accommodation  
  
    *  
  
    * Reasonable accommodation  
  
    *  
  
    * Minor amendment to a Major Phased Development Permit  
  
    *  
  
    * Temporary uses, more than four weeks  
  
    *  
  
    * Variances  
  
    *  
  
    * Administrative conditional uses  
  
    *  
  
    * Shoreline decisions (*appealable to Shorelines Hearings Board along  
    with all related environmental appeals)  
  
    *  
  
    * Short subdivisions  
  
    *  
  
    * Special Exceptions  
  
    *  
  
    * Design review  
  
    *  
  
    * Northgate General Development Plan  
  
    *  
  
    * Light rail transit facilities  
  
    *  
  
    * The following environmental determinations:  
  
    *  
  
    1. Determination of nonsignificance (EIS not required)  
  
    2.  
  
    3. Determination of final EIS adequacy  
  
    4.  
  
    3.  Determinations of significance based solely on historic and  
    cultural preservation  
  
    4.  A decision by the Director to approve, condition or deny a project  
    based on SEPA Policies  
  
    5. A decision by the Director that a project is consistent with a  
    Planned Action Ordinance and EIS (no threshold determination or EIS  
    required)  
  
    6.  
  
    * Major Phased Development  
  
    * Subdivisions (preliminary plats)  
  
    COUNCIL LAND USE DECISIONS  
  
    TYPE IV  
  
    (Quasi -Judicial)  
  
    TYPE V  
  
    (Legislative)  
  
    * Land use map amendments (rezones)  
  
    *  
  
    * Public project approvals  
  
    *  
  
    * Major Institution master plans  
  
    *  
  
    * Council conditional uses  
  
    *  
  
    * Downtown planned community developments  
  
    *  
  
    * Land Use Code text amendments  
  
    *  
  
    * Rezones to implement new City Policies  
  
    *  
  
    * Concept approval for City facilities  
  
    *  
  
    * Major Institution designations  
  
    *  
  
    * Waive or modify development standards for City facilities  
  
    *  
  
    * Planned Action Ordinance  
  
    Section 10.  Section 23.76.006 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC),  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 120611, is hereby amended  
    as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.76.006  Master Use Permits required.  
  
    * * *  
  
    C.  The following are Type II decisions:  
  
    1.  The following procedural environmental decisions for Master Use  
    Permits and for building, demolition, grading and other construction  
    permits are subject to appeal to the Hearing Examiner and are not  
    subject to further appeal to the City Council (supplemental procedures  
    for environmental review are established in SMC Chapter 25.05,  
    Environmental Policies and Procedures):  
  
    a.  Determination of Nonsignificance (DNSs), including mitigated DNSs;  
  
    b.  Determination that a final environmental impact statement (EIS) is  
    adequate; and  
  
    c.  Determination of Significance based solely on historic and  
    cultural preservation.  
  
    2.  The following decisions, including any integrated decisions to  
    approve, condition or deny based on SEPA policies, are subject to  
    appeal to the Hearing Examiner (except shoreline decisions and related  
    environmental determinations which are appealable to the Shorelines  
    Hearings Board):  
  
    a.  Establishment or change of use for temporary uses more than four  
    (4) weeks not otherwise permitted in the zone or not meeting  
    development standards, including the establishment of temporary uses  
    and facilities to construct a light rail transit system for so long as  
    is necessary to construct the system as provided in Section  
    23.42.040E, and excepting temporary relocation of police and fire  
    stations for twelve (12) months or less;  
  
    b.  Short subdivisions;  
  
    c.  Variances; provided that, variances sought as part of a Type IV  
    decision may be granted by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036;  
  
    d.  Special exceptions; provided that, special exceptions sought as  
    part of a Type IV decision may be granted by the Council pursuant to  
    Section 23.76.036;  
  
    e.  Design review;  
  
    f.  Administrative conditional uses; provided that, administrative  
    conditional uses sought as part of a Type IV decision may be approved  
    by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036;  
  
    g.  The following shoreline decisions (supplemental procedures for  
    shoreline decisions are established in Chapter 23.60):  
  
    (1)  Shoreline substantial development permits,  
  
    (2)  Shoreline variances,  
  
    (3)  Shoreline conditional uses;  
  
    h.  Northgate General Development Plan;  
  
    h.i  Major Phased Development;  
  
    i.j.  Determination of project consistency with a  
    planned action ordinance and EIS; and  
  
    j.k.  Establishment of light rail transit facilities  
    necessary to operate and maintain a light rail transit system, in  
    accordance with the provisions of Section 23.80.004.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 11.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be  
    separate and severable.  The invalidity of any particular provision  
    shall not affect the validity of any other provision.  
  
    Section 12.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force  
    thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President ___________ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Kristian F. Kofoed/dk  
  
    Ngate Overlay Code Amend ORD  
  
    April 14, 2003  
  
    version #2  
