* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114591**   
**Ordinance Number: 121184**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the West Point Light Station; authorizing submission of an Application to Obtain Historic Light Station Property to the United States Department of Interior for the West Point Light Station site located at the westerly tip of Discovery Park, in accordance with the National Historic Lighthouse Preservation Act of 2000; authorizing the acquisition of the West Point Light Station site subject to the terms and conditions of the Application to Obtain Historic Light Station Property; authorizing negotiation and acceptance of a quitclaim deed for the West Point Light Station site from the United States General Services Administration for park, recreational, educational, and cultural purposes; and authorizing payment of administrative and closing costs.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 16, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: Pageler)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 26, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 25, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 9, 2003   
**Committee:** Parks, Education and Libraries   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK   
  
**Index Terms:** HISTORIC-BUILDINGS-AND-SITES, DISCOVERY-PARK, LAND-ACQUISITION  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114591.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114591  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the West Point Light Station; authorizing  
    submission of an Application to Obtain Historic Light Station Property  
    to the United States Department of Interior for the West Point Light  
    Station site located at the westerly tip of Discovery Park, in  
    accordance with the National Historic Lighthouse Preservation Act of  
    2000; authorizing the acquisition of the West Point Light Station site  
    subject to the terms and conditions of the Application to Obtain  
    Historic Light Station Property; authorizing negotiation and  
    acceptance of a quitclaim deed for the West Point Light Station site  
    from the United States General Services Administration for park,  
    recreational, educational, and cultural purposes; and authorizing  
    payment of administrative and closing costs.  
  
    WHEREAS, under the provisions of the National Historic Lighthouse  
    Preservation Act  ("NHLPA"), a formal application process was created  
    to dispose of federally owned lighthouses and light stations at little  
    or no cost to eligible entities for education, park, recreation,  
    cultural, or historic preservation purposes; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the United States Department of Interior National Park  
    Service is charged with the administration of the NHLPA process and  
    the subsequent review and recommendation of eligible entities; and  
  
    WHEREAS, The City of Seattle is an eligible entity; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the West Point Light Station site (#9-U-WA-1205) located at  
    the most westerly tip of Discovery Park in Seattle, Washington, and  
    containing 2.04 acres, more or less, has been declared surplus at the  
    discretion of the United States General Services Administration; and  
  
    WHEREAS, The City of Seattle needs the West Point Light Station site  
    and will use said property in perpetuity for the purposes as set forth  
    in the application attached to this Ordinance as Exhibit A, and in  
    accordance with the requirements of the NHLPA and any regulations and  
    policies promulgated thereunder; and  
  
    WHEREAS, The City of Seattle is willing and able to assume liability  
    and responsibility for the development, maintenance and operation of  
    the West Point Light Station site; and  
  
    WHEREAS, acquiring the West Point Light Station site is consistent  
    with the City's Master Plan for Discovery Park as adopted via City  
    Council Resolution 27399; and  
  
    WHEREAS, this Ordinance is required as part of the Application to  
    Obtain Historic Light Station Property to the United States Department  
    of Interior, National Park Service; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
      Section 1.  The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, or his  
    designee, is hereby authorized, for and on behalf of The City of  
    Seattle, to submit an Application to Obtain Historic Light Station  
    Property, substantially in the form attached to this Ordinance as  
    Exhibit "A", or with such additions, modifications or deletions as the  
    Superintendent deems to be in the best interest of the City, in such  
    counterparts as may be necessary, to the United States Department of  
    Interior, National Park Service, to acquire real property commonly  
    known as the West Point Light Station and legally described as  
    follows:  
  
    A parcel of land located in Section 9, Township 25 North, Range 3 East  
    of the Willamette Meridian, King County, Washington, described as  
    follows:  
  
         Commencing at the southwest corner of the southeast quarter of  
    Section 9, Township 25 North, Range 3 East, W.M.; thence along the  
    south line of said Section 9, North 88 degrees 50'04" West 500 feet to  
    a pipe; thence continuing North 88 degrees 50'04" West, along said  
    section line, 325 feet to a point, said point being a Government  
    meander corner; thence along the Government meander line North 68  
    degrees 29'20" West 100 feet to the True Point of Beginning; thence  
    continuing North 68 degrees 29'20" West 539.86 feet; thence along the  
    Government meander line North 79 degrees 24'52" East 559.29 feet;  
    thence leaving said meander line South 4 degrees 04'01" East 250.33  
    feet; thence South 52 degrees 00'00" West 82.84 feet, more or less, to  
    the True Point of Beginning, containing 2.039 acres, more or less.  
  
    The Superintendent or his designee is further authorized to execute  
    and deliver, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, any ancillary  
    documents that the Superintendent deems necessary or appropriate to  
    accomplish the transfer of the West Point Light Station site to the  
    City.  
  
      Section 2. The Superintendent, or his designee, is further  
    authorized, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, to negotiate the  
    terms of a quitclaim deed from the United States of America for the  
    West Point Light Station site, subject to such exceptions,  
    reservations, terms, covenants, agreements, conditions, and  
    restrictions as may be required by the United States Department of  
    Interior, National Park Service, and the United States General  
    Services Administration under the National Historic Lighthouse  
    Preservation Act and regulations promulgated thereunder. Upon delivery  
    of the quitclaim deed for the West Point Light Station site, in form  
    and content acceptable to the Superintendent or his designee, the  
    Superintendent or his designee is authorized to accept the deed on  
    behalf of The City of Seattle by attaching to the deed his written  
    acceptance thereof, and to record the same.  The West Point Light  
    Station site shall be accepted for park, recreational, educational,  
    and cultural purposes, and placed under the jurisdiction of the  
    Department of Parks and Recreation.  
  
      Section 3.   The Superintendent or his designee is further  
    authorized to pay administrative and closing costs, if any, associated  
    with the transfer of the West Point Light Station site to the City,  
    including, without limitation, costs of survey, site assessment, title  
    searches and deed recording, from Citywide Programs and Scheduling  
    K3210 previously appropriated by Ordinance 120973.  
  
    Section 4.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance, including, without limitation,  
    submission of the application described in Section 1 above, is hereby  
    ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 5.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Exhibit A: Application to Obtain Historic Light Station Property  
  
    Charles Ng/JR  
  
    LIGHTHOUSEord.doc  
  
    5/2/03  
  
    version #2  
  
    Exhibit A  
  
    Application to Obtain Historic Light Station Property  
  
    Title Page  
  
    Applicant agency and representative:  
  
    City of Seattle Parks and Recreation Department, Kenneth R. Bounds,  
    Superintendent  
  
    Charles Sablan, Program Manager  
  
    Name of prospective transferee:  
  
    City of Seattle Parks and Recreation Department  
  
    Street, City, State, Zip:  
  
    100 Dexter Avenue North, Seattle, WA, 98109  
  
    Daytime telephone number:  
  
    206-233-3712  
  
    Mail Address:  
  
    100 Dexter Avenue North, Seattle, WA 98109  
  
    Name of property and GSA control No. of property:  
  
    West Point Light Station, GSA control #9-U-WA-1205  
  
    Address of Property, Street, City, County, State, Zip:  
  
    1500 Utah Street, Seattle, King County, WA, 98199  
  
    APPLICATION BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE FOR THE ACQUISITION OF THE  
  
    WEST POINT LIGHT STATION, GSA CONTROL #9-U-WA-1205  
  
    Table of Contents  
  
    Title  
    Page.................................................................  
    ...............................1  
  
    Table of  
    Contents.............................................................  
    ...........................2  
  
    Application Covenant  
    Agreement.......................................................  
    Appendix A  
  
    Executive  
    Summary..............................................................  
    .......................3  
  
    Property Description and Planning Documents  
  
    a. Property Description/Baseline  
    Data......................................................4  
  
    b. Preservation and Maintenance  
    Plan......................................................6  
  
    c. Use  
    Plan.................................................................  
    ....................21  
  
    d. Financial  
    Plan.................................................................  
    ..............28  
  
    e. Management  
    Plan.................................................................  
    ..........30  
  
    Ordinance/Certification of Authority to Acquire  
    Property...........................  Appendix I  
  
    Exhibit II:  Environmental Analysis of Probable  
    Impacts..........................................33  
  
    Appendices  
  
      Appendix A:    Application to Obtain Historic Light Station  
    Property Covenant Agreement  
  
      Appendix B:    Maps of West Point Light Station Property  
  
      Appendix C:    Photo Documentation of Property Description  
  
      Appendix D:    National Register of Historic Places Inventory-  
    Nomination Form  
  
      Appendix E:    King County Settlement Agreement-Draft  
  
      Appendix Fi:    City of Seattle Financial Plan  
  
      Appendix Fii:  2001 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the  
    City of Seattle  
  
      Appendix G:    Report of the West Point Citizens Advisory Committee  
  
      Appendix H:     City of Seattle Proof of Insurance  
  
      Appendix I:      Ordinance/Certification of Authority to Acquire  
    Property  
  
      Appendix J:  Letter of Support  
  
      Appendix K:  City Organization Chart  
  
    Executive Summary  
  
    The City of Seattle, through its Department of Parks and Recreation,  
    and the not-for-profit architectural preservation agency, Historic  
    Seattle, submit this application to acquire the West Point Light  
    Station and surrounding property.  We propose that the Seattle  
    Department of Parks and Recreation take over the light station and  
    the two houses and garage.  The proposed use by Seattle Department of  
    Parks and Recreation is to incorporate the lighthouse site and  
    buildings into Discovery Park.  We propose to run educational  
    programs on site and keep the buildings open to the public when park  
    staff is present.  We also propose to conduct tours of the light  
    station and use the other buildings for classroom space, nature and  
    historical exhibits and storage.  
  
    This proposal is submitted in partnership with Historic Seattle.  
    Founded in 1974, Historic Seattle is a nonprofit membership  
    organization dedicated to the preservation of Seattle and King  
    County's architectural legacy. As both a public development authority  
    and charitable foundation, Historic Seattle is a major advocate for,  
    and participant in, the thoughtful and meaningful preservation and  
    rehabilitation of historic buildings, landscapes, and architectural  
    artifacts. In addition, it develops and delivers educational programs  
    designed to raise awareness of our vibrant architectural heritage.  
    Because of the architectural significance of the lighthouse building,  
    Historic Seattle is an appropriate and natural partner with the City  
    of Seattle in this application.  
  
    Selecting the City of Seattle as the future steward of the West Point  
    Light Station property will:  
  
    * Provide public access to the West Point Light Station property. The  
    light station site is surrounded by 543+ acres of Discovery Park, and  
    the acquisition of the property will complete the acquisition of land  
    at the former Ft. Lawton peninsula, which has been dedicated to  
    providing a uniquely natural park in the midst of a large city.  
  
    * Expand the environmental education and stewardship programs  
    currently available at Discovery Park to a broader audience and a  
    larger, more environmentally diverse, area. Utilize existing staff of  
    naturalists, maintenance and management staff and a supportive  
    volunteer program, to provide a broad array of educational and  
    recreational programs to the public in a cost-effective and efficient  
    manner.  
  
    * Provide a long-term maintenance program plan for the historic  
    buildings at the site. An assured funding stream to support the  
    maintenance plan has been identified.  
  
    * Ensure that the architectural and structural integrity of the  
    Lighthouse and other buildings will be maintained in a sensitive  
    manner and the highest standards due to the involvement and  
    assistance of Historic Seattle's staff and fund raising resources.  
  
    * Promote supportive partnerships with other organizations to develop  
    programs for a variety of users as well as protect the fragile  
    seashore location.  The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation  
    has already documented interest in partnerships with the King County  
    Wastewater Treatment Division, People for Puget Sound, the University  
    of Washington's Burke Museum, the Magnolia Historical Society, the  
    Washington Native Plant Society and the Seattle Aquarium in support  
    of developing and supporting programs at the West Point Lighthouse  
    property.  
  
    In summary, the acceptance of the Seattle Department of Parks and  
    Recreation's proposal will ensure public access, enjoyment and  
    preservation of this uniquely beautiful, environmentally sensitive  
    and historically significant property in perpetuity.  
  
    Property Description and Planning Documents  
  
    A.  Property Description/Baseline Data  
  
    West Point is a dramatic site on Seattle's westernmost tip of land  
    extending into Puget Sound.  There are beautiful views up and down  
    the Sound and across the water to the Olympic Mountains.   The  
    western bluffs in Discovery Park extend from the height of 250 feet  
    and slope gradually to the West Point sand spit.  The lighthouse  
    property is 2.04 acres.  The West Point sand spit is also occupied by  
    the King County Wastewater Treatment Plant.  The south shore side of  
    the lighthouse site is retained with a rock rip rap wall and is  
    surrounded by a chain link fence.  An extensive sand and gravel beach  
    area surrounds West Point.  
  
    Visitors gain access to West Point through Discovery Park, which  
    includes vistas, tidal beaches, trails, native forest areas and  
    meadowlands.  Discovery Park provides an open space to the citizens  
    of Seattle where they can enjoy the quiet and solitude of nature.  
    Activity centers in the park include the Discovery Park Environmental  
    Learning Center, Daybreak Star Indian Cultural Center and a southeast  
    play area.  Discovery Park, formerly Fort Lawton, is a commanding  
    site on Magnolia Bluff to be preserved for all time as a public park.  
  
    Access throughout the park is pedestrian oriented with vehicles  
    limited to parking areas.  The West Point Light Station is located at  
    the western tip of the park, and even though accessible by vehicles,  
    it is the most isolated and lonely part of the shoreline.  The light  
    station will be a special destination for the public, as it has a  
    unique character and exceptional territorial views that will  
    complement and expand the use Discovery Park as a recreational and  
    environmental education center.  
  
    The West Point Light Station is the oldest lighthouse in the Seattle  
    area.  Established in 1881, the tower is 27 feet high and houses a  
    Fourth Order Fresnel lens and light that is visible up to 19 miles.  
    The station was automated in 1985.  The light is at the turning point  
    to Shilshole Bay and welcomes ocean commerce into the port of  
    Seattle.  The station is one of six Coast Guard lights in the Puget  
    Sound-Straits of Juan de Fuca area.  
  
    The buildings contribute to the character of this historic site and  
    working light station.  The West Point Light Station property is  
    listed on the National Register of Historic Places (1977).  
  
    View from lighthouse looking east  
  
    View of Lighthouse looking  
  
    west  
  
    See Appendix B for Map and site plan.  
  
    See Appendix C for exterior and interior photographs.  
  
    See Appendix D for a copy of the National Historic Registry of Places  
    nomination form.  
  
    B.  Preservation and Maintenance Plan  
  
    An assessment of the buildings at West Point was conducted in April  
    2003.  A previous Coast Guard evaluation of the buildings was also  
    carefully reviewed.  The assessment included photographs and  
    descriptions of each building and details of architectural features.  
    The assessment also included an identification of needed repairs,  
    urgency rating and preliminary cost estimates.  
  
    The buildings remaining in 2003 and included in the assessment are:  
  
    Light station        1881  
  
    Fog Signal Building      1906  
  
    Quarters 1        1881  
  
    Quarters 2        1881  
  
    Oil House/Paint Storage Building  n/a  
  
    Garage          n/a  
  
    Lighthouse/Fog Signal Building  
  
    The lighthouse is a combined fog signal building with an attached  
    light tower.  The light tower holds a Fourth Order Fresnel lens and  
    the mechanical room holds a compressor and generator used to compress  
    air used in the fog signal.  The construction materials are masonry  
    red brick with the exterior covered with parging.  
  
    Interior of lighthouse mechanical room  
  
    The entry doors on the north side of the service room do not appear  
    to be original.  Above the doors is the original transom of two  
    lights.  The windows are double hung, wood sash and frame units.  The  
    characteristic Coast Guard standard wood shingle roof is painted red.  
    The doors transom and frame are painted wood.  
  
    The exterior of the lighthouse is coated with a heavy paint over  
    parging which is placed over the masonry red brick.  The parging has  
    maintained its integrity with some minor stained areas.  The window  
    and door openings have an arched lentil at the head and a lug sill at  
    the sill. The existing windows appear to be original.  The vents in  
    the concrete walls have been covered with solid material.  This  
    covering eliminates the free ventilation of the building and has  
    contributed to deterioration of the masonry and wood.  
  
      Detail of covered vent in concrete wall  
  
       foundation  
  
    The light tower is an octagon surrounded by a square gallery deck of  
    reinforced concrete.  Attached to the gallery deck is a steel pipe  
    railing at the perimeter of the deck.  The lantern housing is a metal  
    structure composed of a metal bulkhead, a glazed section and an  
    octagonal metal roof.  The lantern roof is formed by a series of  
    metal panels.  There is a cap at the apex of the roof on which a  
    spherical ventilation ball is placed.  At the top of the ventilation  
    ball is a spike lighting rod.  
  
    Detail of rust on gallery deck railing  
  
    Oil House  
  
    The existing siding is a corrugated fiberglass or asbestos material.  
    The roof is corrugated metal with a ridge cap.  A metal trim or water  
    table caps the concrete slab at the base of the building.  Even  
    though many elements have been replaced, the building shape and  
    character appears consistent with the original design of corrugated  
    metal siding and red roof.  
  
    Keeper's Quarters A & B  
  
    The Keeper's Quarters A & B were constructed in 1881 and are one and  
    one half story wood framed Cape Cod buildings set on a brick walled  
    basement foundation.  The buildings have gable roofs covered with  
    wood shingles painted the traditional Coast Guard red.  The exterior  
    is wood-siding with trimmed corners.  
  
    The original windows have been replaced with vinyl windows.  The  
    earlier windows were most likely wooden double-hung units.  Other  
    exterior features include open front porches with shed roofs  
    supported by two square columns.  
  
    Keeper's Quarters A & B  
  
    Detail of peeling paint on exterior  
  
    surface of Keeper's Quarters  
  
    Garage  
  
    The garage building is a rectangular form with three bays and  
    adjacent office.  The three bays have large overhead doors on the  
    east side.  The garage is of concrete masonry construction and is  
    painted.  The roof is asphalt shingles.  The asphalt pavement at the  
    garage entry and driveway is deteriorated and in need of replacement.  
  
    Site features include concrete walkways, fences, planters and  
    seawalls.  
  
    Assessment of Repairs and Restoration  
  
    The West Point Lighthouse property was recently inspected and  
    evaluated by the Coast Guard and the findings are referenced in this  
    assessment.  These evaluations, combined with the observations and  
    recommendations resulting from a site visit by staff from the Seattle  
    Department of Parks and Recreation, form the basis for an effective  
    repair and maintenance plan that identifies specific tasks at the  
    lighthouse, the two housing quarters and garage.  
  
    The West Point Lighthouse, Oil House and Keeper's Quarters are a  
    collection of intact buildings located on their original site.  Since  
    construction in 1881, the lighthouse and to a lesser degree the  
    Keeper's Quarters all retain a high degree of architectural and  
    structural integrity  
  
    The repair and restoration of all the buildings is feasible although  
    all have experienced some deterioration.  The surviving architectural  
    features contribute to the sense of a working light station.  
  
    The cost estimates for repairs are preliminary figures based on site  
    measurements without the benefit of drawings to calculate the actual  
    size.  Although no prioritization of the buildings has been done, the  
    lighthouse can easily be identified as the primary historic resource.  
  
    Lighthouse/Fog Signal Building  
  
    Addressing moisture problems and improving ventilation are a  
    priority.  At least half of the wood frame windows need repair or  
    replacement due to wood-rot and moisture damage and should be  
    addressed to prevent further damage.  A number of windows also  
    require re-caulking and some replacement of windows in kind and  
    character with the original design of the lighthouse is needed.  The  
    thick layer of paint over the wood at sills can easily be peeled away  
    revealing wood-rot.  The windows are currently painted closed and  
    will need all paint removed to become operable.  According to the  
    recent Coast Guard inspection, the heater needs to be turned off  
    until adequate ventilation is provided.  Warm moist air accumulates  
    in the building and there are signs of brick deterioration behind the  
    interior painted masonry.  
  
    There are some rust stains on the parging under the iron braces of  
    the gallery deck.  This could indicate water is penetrating from the  
    deck or from the sides of the braces.  The gallery deck should be  
    resealed and painted and drains should be in working order.  The  
    copper roof over the light tower appears to be in good condition.  
    The first layer of wood shingles on the north side has some fungus on  
    the leading edge and should be prevented from going further into the  
    next layer of shingles.  The parging over brick masonry is in good  
    condition but should be monitored for any signs of deterioration.  
  
    The exterior and interior paint surface will be evaluated for the  
    best approach to improve ventilation.  The red brick masonry has been  
    exposed in the interior eastern part of the building.  Removing the  
    paint from the interior brick surface may improve ventilation and  
    eliminate trapping moisture in the masonry.  
  
    Needed work and cost estimates are detailed as follows:  
  
    Address moisture problems and improve ventilation:  
  
    * Repair and re-caulk 10 windows and make operable  
  
     and install vent in at least 50% of the windows          $  9,000.00  
  
    * Remove board covering exterior north under floor crawl space      $  
    100.00  
  
    * Add south side vent and reinstall floor vents, install  
    screen/louvered vents  $     400.00  
  
    * Redirect downspouts to ensure outfall flows away from the building  
    $     300.00  
  
    Rust remediation:  
  
    * Remedy gallery railing rust              $  3,000.00  
  
    * Oil house has some rusting              $     300.00  
  
    Other:  
  
    * Remove exterior paint from wood trim and repaint        $  
    400.00  
  
    * Seal exterior foundation wall              $  1,000.00  
  
    * Repaint interior as needed and exterior trim            n/a  
  
    * Reseal and paint gallery decking              $  1,500.00  
  
    * Repair/Replace damaged interior brick and mortar        $  1,500.00  
  
    * Evaluate crawlspace/foundation brick for damage  
  
    Repair/replace as needed.                $  1,000.00  
  
                  Sub-total                 $18,500.00  
  
                  Unknown Conditions@ 10%             $   1,850.00  
  
                  Mobilization@10%      $  2,035.00  
  
                  Contractor's Overhead/profit@20%  $  4,477.00  
  
                  Bond &Insurance@5%    $  1,343.10  
  
                  Construction Contract Amount  $28,205.10  
  
    (Percentages are based on cumulative totals)  
  
    Preventive Maintenance:  
  
    * Check ball vent periodically to be sure it is clear.  
  
    * Leave lantern deck hatch open to assist air venting.  
  
    Oil House  
  
    * The oil house will require routine painting and sheet metal repair.  
  
    * Prepare and paint exterior.  
  
    * Oil house exterior has some rusting.  
  
    Quarters A & B  
  
    Both Quarters A and B are in need of general repair to deteriorated  
    finishes and features.  Both buildings are in need of exterior  
    painting and repair/replacement of the roofs.  Interior repairs to  
    both buildings will be generally related to the program use of the  
    buildings by the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation.  
    Interior spaces will be remodeled to accommodate small groups and  
    interpretive programming.  One of the bathrooms in each building will  
    be renovated for the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) access.  
    The exterior paint on both houses is peeling and will need to be  
    removed before applying a new coat of paint.  The wood shingle roofs  
    of both buildings have areas where the shingles are lifting or loose.  
    The roofs should be replaced in five years.  The interior items  
    listed are based on the recent Coast Guard assessment and are  
    consistent with the planned use of the buildings for classrooms and  
    interpretive programs.  
  
    Quarters A:  
  
    Exterior  
  
    * Repair or replace roof in five years  (not immediate)        n/a  
  
    * Make first floor ADA accessible               $  3,500.00  
  
    * Repair grounds and driveway and walkway around the house      $  
    2,000.00  
  
    * Strip and paint exterior wood siding            $  7,500.00  
  
    * Replace screen door at side entrance and back entrance        $  
    800.00  
  
    * Replace pipe fastener on north side            $     100.00  
  
    * Replace all exterior vinyl windows            $  7,200.00  
  
                      Subtotal    $21,100.00  
  
                  Unknown Conditions@ 10%               $  2,110.00  
  
                  Mobilization@10%      $  2,321.00  
  
                  Contractor's Overhead/profit@20%  $  5,106.20  
  
                  Bond & Insurance@5%    $  1,531.86  
  
                  Construction Contract Amount  $32,169.06  
  
    Quarters A:  
  
    Interior  
  
    * Replace side entrance door              $    600.00  
  
    * Replace VCT flooring in side entrance vestibule          $ 1,500.00  
  
    * Repair vestibule windowsill and paint entire vestibule        $  
    500.00  
  
    * Repair all chipped paint and scratches and touch up wall finish  
    $    500.00  
  
    * Replace kitchen cabinets and replace doors          $ 3,000.00  
  
    * Repair backside of china hutch              $    500.00  
  
    * Repair hole in wall located in living room          $    100.00  
  
    * Install bottom track for sliding shower door in first floor bath  
  
    (Not applicable - this area is slated to be remodeled into a  
  
    Commercial ADA accessible restroom)            $ 7,500.00  
  
    * Replace cabinets in ground floor bathroom  
  
    (Not applicable this area is slated to be turned into a  
  
    Commercial ADA accessible restroom)              n/a  
  
    * Repair carpet at the top of stairs              $    500.00  
  
    * Repair hole in the hallway of second floor          $    100.00  
  
    * Replace broken glass in bedroom #3  
  
    (Not applicable - all windows are slated to be replaced)  
  
                    Subtotal            $ 14,800.00  
  
                Subtotal from previous page    $ 14,800.00  
  
    * Replace closet door in bedroom #3            $     150.00  
  
    HVAC Systems  
  
    * Replace oil furnace with a new furnace            $  4,500.00  
  
    * Secure tank for seismic resistance            $     500.00  
  
    Plumbing  
  
    * Seismically restrain the water heater and replace          $  
    1,500.00  
  
    * Replace the domestic water system with copper pipes        $  
    10,000.00  
  
    Electrical  
  
    * Replace all conduit, electrical boxes and connectors        $  
    250.00  
  
     on S. porch exterior switch  
  
    * Replace bulb and lens cover              $        50.00  
  
    Interior  
  
    * Remount west exterior light fixture            $        50.00  
  
    * Repair upstairs storage area upper light            $      100.00  
  
    * Remount light fixture in bedroom 3            $      100.00  
  
    * Repair garbage disposal                $      300.00  
  
    * Install additional lighting fixtures in basement          $  
    1,000.00  
  
    * Replace smoke detectors                $      500.00  
  
    Subtotal             $ 33,800.00  
  
                  Unknown Conditions@ 10%               $   3,380.00  
  
                  Mobilization@10%      $   3,718.00  
  
                  Contractor's Overhead/profit@20%  $   8,179.60  
  
                  Bond & Insurance@5%    $   2,453.88  
  
                  Construction Contract Amount  $ 51,531.48  
  
    Quarters B:  
  
    Exterior  
  
    * Repair grounds and driveway              $  2,000.00  
  
    * Strip and paint exterior wood siding            $  7,500.00  
  
    * Replace wood shingles (within five years) not immediate  
  
    * Replace all exterior vinyl windows            $  7,200.00  
  
    * Repair/replace wood foundation shingles on west side        $  
    500.00  
  
    * Repair damaged planks and paint access ramp          $  1,000.00  
  
    * Replace front screen door                $     100.00  
  
    Subtotal            $18,300.00  
  
                  Unknown Conditions@ 10%              $  1,830.00  
  
                  Mobilization@10%      $  2,013.00  
  
                  Contractor's Overhead/profit@20%  $  4,428.60  
  
                  Bond & Insurance@5%    $  1,328.58  
  
                  Construction Contract Amount  $27,900.18  
  
    Quarter B:  
  
    Interior  
  
    * Replace side entrance door              $      600.00  
  
    * Re-caulk shower in first floor bathroom  
  
    (Not applicable - this area is slated to be remodeled  
  
    into a Commercial ADA accessible restroom)          $   7,500.00  
  
    * Repair seal at window in bedroom #2  
  
    (Not applicable - all vinyl windows are slated to be replaced)  
  
    * Replace oil furnace                $   4,500.00  
  
    * Secure tank for seismic resistance            $      500.00  
  
    Plumbing  
  
    * Seismically restrain the water heater            $      500.00  
  
    * Replace the domestic water system with copper pipes        $  
    10,000.00  
  
    Electrical  
  
    * Remount light fixture in bedroom 1            $        50.00  
  
    * Remount light fixture upstairs storage            $        50.00  
  
    * Replace light fixture                $        50.00  
  
    * Mount switch enclosure and conduit            $        50.00  
  
    * Replace bulb and check wiring connections          $        50.00  
  
    * Repair downstairs restroom exhaust fan            $      300.00  
  
    * Install additional lighting fixtures              $   1,000.00  
  
    Subtotal             $ 25,150.00  
  
                  Unknown Conditions@ 10%        $   2,515.00  
  
                  Mobilization@10%      $   2,766.50  
  
                  Contractor's Overhead/profit@20%  $   6,086.30  
  
                  Bond & Insurance@5%    $   1,825.89  
  
                  Construction Contract Amount  $ 38,343.69  
  
    4.  Garage  
  
    Repairs to the garage include exterior painting and replacement of  
    garage doors and asphalt roof within five years.  Some of the  
    shingles are curling and could be further damaged by high winds.  
  
    Exterior  
  
    * Provide shoe and splash pad at downspouts          $     200.00  
  
    * Replace the rusted conduit on west side            $     250.00  
  
    * Replace missing retaining strips at windows          $     300.00  
  
    * Replace both doors to office              $  1,600.00  
  
    * Repair driveway (within one year)            $  6,000.00  
  
    Subtotal               $  8,350.00  
  
    Subtotal from previous page    $  8,350.00  
  
    Unknown Conditions@ 10%              $     835.00  
  
                  Mobilization@10%      $     918.50  
  
                  Contractor's Overhead/profit@20%  $  2,020.70  
  
                  Bond & Insurance@5%    $     606.21  
  
                  Construction Contract Amount  $12,730.41  
  
    Interior  
  
    Electrical  
  
    * Repair garage door openers              $ 1,000.00  
  
    * Replace structural supports              $ 1,500.00  
  
    * Replace lens covers at north and middle            $    250.00  
  
    * Bay fluorescent light fixtures               n/a  
  
    Subtotal  $ 2,750.00  
  
                  Unknown Conditions@ 10%        $    275.00  
    Mobilization@10%      $    302.50  
  
                  Contractor's Overhead/profit@20%  $    665.50  
  
                  Bond &Insurance@5%    $    199.65  
    Construction Contract Amount  $ 4,192.65  
  
    Improvement totals to bring the site up to support programs and  
    activities proposed on the application.  
  
    Lighthouse/Fog Signal Building  
  
                Construction Contract Amount            $   28,205.10  
  
    Quarters A:  
  
              Interior Construction Contract Amount            $  
    32,169.06  
  
    Exterior Construction Contract Amount            $   51,531.48  
  
    Quarters B:  
  
              Exterior Construction Contract Amount            $  
    27,900.18  
  
              Interior Construction Contract Amount            $  
    38,343.69  
  
    Garage  
  
              Exterior Construction Contract Amount            $  
    12,730.41  
  
              Interior Construction Contract Amount            $  
    4,192.65  
  
                    Total Amount                      $ 195,072.57  
  
    In addition, modifications are needed to support adaptive re-use of  
    this structure to accommodate the interpretive program and other  
    uses.  These interior modifications will include removal of wood from  
    partition walls, cleaning and sealing the concrete floor, and  
    interior finish upgrade of the office and toilet spaces.  The toilet  
    will be remodeled to meet ADA access requirements.  Further design  
    work will be necessary to establish the complete program of repair  
    and remodeling of this space.  These figures are preliminary  
    allowance estimate for work.  
  
    Condition Summary  
  
    The buildings at West Point Light Station are a remarkable collection  
    of intact buildings, each located at their original site with a high  
    degree of architectural and structural integrity.  Since constructed  
    more than 80 years ago, the buildings and site have been unchanged in  
    structure and building style.  The lighthouse has been maintained and  
    retains its historic integrity.  
  
    The lighthouse is the primary historic resource on the site and is a  
    priority for any repairs.  The repair needs of the remaining  
    buildings will be prioritized based on program development objectives  
    and historic preservation goals.  
  
    The condition assessment is a review of the seven buildings at West  
    Point examining the issues of deterioration, structural and historic  
    integrity.  All of the buildings have experienced deterioration,  
    primarily attributed to weather exposure.  The levels of  
    deterioration are not severe enough to cause structural failure.  
    Addressing any deterioration will help ensure preservation of the  
    buildings and reduce any future restoration costs.  
  
    The most critical maintenance need at present is the moisture  
    problems and lack of ventilation in the lighthouse.  The moisture  
    buildup in the masonry could potentially lead to structural failure  
    and further deterioration of the building.  The wood windows show  
    signs of wood rot and arresting the deterioration soon will ensure  
    the possibility of restoration.  
  
    Roofing:  
  
    All the buildings have roofs that are functioning properly but will  
    require repair sometime in the near future to maintain a weather  
    tight enclosure.  The Department's maintenance plan for the buildings  
    at the site schedules all roofs to be replaced within five years.  In  
    the meantime, emergent roof repairs will be considered by the  
    Department as "required maintenance" and will be completed  
    immediately.  
  
    Exterior Siding:  
  
    The exterior of Quarters A & B, and the garage are in need of  
    repainting.  Removal of peeling paint and repairs to damaged siding  
    and trim will be accomplished before painting.  
  
    Mechanical Systems:  
  
    Maintenance of heating systems is necessary to prevent deterioration  
    of all buildings.  An upgraded heating system is essential to the  
    preservation of the buildings.  New forced air furnaces would provide  
    adequate heat to the interior spaces and could utilize the existing  
    system of ducts and registers.  
  
    Doors and Windows:  
  
    The windows of the lighthouse have been painted closed.  The windows  
    need to be scraped of the thick layer of paint to be operable.  Any  
    repairs to improve ventilation will require a faithful restoration  
    with doors and windows that match the original in design and  
    function.  If any windows are replaced, they will be constructed to  
    closely match the original windows in materials, style and function.  
    Original drawings and historic photographs will serve as a guide for  
    the replication of any needed replacements.  
  
    Electrical Systems:  
  
    The electrical services and systems will be examined for all  
    buildings at West Point and the electrical system adequacy will be  
    determined by the use that is programmed for each of the buildings.  
    Proper service for the lighthouse and oil house electrical systems  
    can be determined now as no major change in use is anticipated.  
  
    Insulation:  
  
    The Quarters may require the installation of insulation to meet the  
    current building codes for insulation.  The exterior walls and attics  
    are sufficient in depth to meet current codes.  
  
    Cyclical Maintenance Plan:  
  
    Five Year Cycle  
  
    * Repair, prime and paint all exterior wood such as trim, facia,  
    gutters and soffits.  
  
    * Inspect and repair cracks in exterior masonry, foundations and  
    chimneys.  
  
    * Repair or replace roof and gutters as needed to prevent any damage  
    to interior of building and equipment.  
  
    * Replace broken or damaged windows and doors immediately upon  
    identification of vandalism or damage.  Re-caulk lantern windows as  
    necessary.  
  
    * Repair or replace corroded handrails, stairs, ventilators or  
    structural brackets.  
  
    Routine Maintenance  
  
    * As required, clean all windows and glass.  
  
    * As required, polish all brass below main light.  
  
    * As required, replace light bulbs for interior lighting  
  
    * As required, repaint steps and landings in tower to maintain  
    appearance and protect metal.  
  
    * As required, cut grass, edge walkways and maintain shrubbery.  
  
    * Pick up trash and debris daily.  
  
    * Remove any corrosion from variety of metals used in lantern  
    construction.  
  
    Lighthouse Maintenance:  
  
    * Remove all paint from interior masonry surfaces and leave bare.  
    This will reduce future maintenance and allow observation of the  
    masonry surfaces to detect any degradation of the masonry structure.  
  
    * Polish the brass and glass on the Fourth Order Fresnel lens as  
    outlined in the Department of Interior's Preservation Handbook.  
  
    * Maintain all color schemes and ensure new paints are compatible  
    with all existing paint.  
  
    Preservation and Maintenance Planning Experience  
  
    Seattle Parks and Recreation manages more than 6,000 acres and 400  
    buildings, including various historic resources.  At Discovery Park,  
    adjacent to the West Point Lighthouse, the Seattle Department of  
    Parks and Recreation manages the Fort Lawton Historic District.  This  
    district, which consists of the parade ground and surrounding  
    structures dating from the 1898-1908 establishment of the fort (which  
    is now Discovery Park), is on the National Register of Historic  
    Places and is a Seattle Landmarks District.  In the period from 1988-  
    90, extensive work was undertaken in the district to remove non-  
    historic structures, provide structural stabilization and exterior  
    renovation of seven historic structures, provide for various site  
    restoration, and erect an interpretive sign.  Other historic  
    interpretation efforts undertaken at that time included assembly of  
    an oral history of early life at the fort, preparation of an  
    interpretive slide show and preparation of a self-guided walking tour  
    of the district.  
  
    Elsewhere in the City's park system there are other facilities listed  
    to the National Register and designated as Seattle Landmarks.  The  
    Chief Seattle statue at Tilikum Place in downtown Seattle is both  
    listed to the National Register and is a Seattle Landmark and the  
    surrounding site is undergoing renovation this year to better  
    celebrate this feature.  The iron pergola at Pioneer Square in  
    downtown Seattle is also listed to the National Register and was  
    extensively restored after a truck hit the structure, causing it to  
    collapse, in January 2001.  Volunteer Park, listed to the National  
    Register and subject of a pending nomination as a Seattle Landmark,  
    is the centerpiece of the plan for the Seattle park system originally  
    designed by the Olmsted Brothers firm in the early years of the 20th  
    century.  Recent investments at Volunteer Park have included  
    rebuilding of the park roadway and storm drainage systems, extensive  
    renovation to the historic Conservatory (already designated as a  
    Seattle Landmark), and landscape renovation and park furniture  
    replacement to recall the site's past.  
  
    The Department is continually planning major maintenance projects  
    that are necessary to protect the parks system's capital assets.  
    Each biennium prior to the preparation of the capital improvement  
    program, we assess the physical condition of assets, conduct  
    preliminary engineering studies, and prioritize needed work.  
  
    Historic Seattle's involvement with the Seattle Department of Parks  
    and Recreation in this proposal will ensure that the architectural  
    and structural integrity of the buildings at the site will be  
    maintained and preserved for the enjoyment of future generations.  
    Historic Seattle has been actively preserving and rehabilitating  
    architecturally significant buildings in the City since it was  
    established thirty (30) years ago.  The resources and single-minded  
    organizational focus of Historic Seattle adds a welcomed and  
    significant dimension to the Department's efforts to acquire and  
    preserve this valuable, historic, property for future generations.  
  
    C.  Use Plan  
  
    Educational Uses  
  
    1.   Both houses and the garage will be used as an education annex of  
    the Discovery Park Environmental Learning Center.  The following are  
    the ways this annex will be used.  
  
    * Interpretive walks focusing on the inter-tidal community, geology,  
    shorebirds, and marine mammals of the Puget Sound will be staged from  
    here.  This includes school group programs, scout troop programs,  
    nature day camps and overnights.  The houses and/or the garage area  
    will be used as classrooms.  
  
    * Interpretive exhibits of the natural and cultural history of the  
    Puget Sound and the light station property will be set up in the  
    houses and/or the garage.  An interpretive panel on the wastewater  
    treatment process will also be incorporated into the exhibit space.  
    These exhibits will be open to the public viewing.  
  
    * Interpretive beach tours for the casual visitor will be staged from  
    the annex buildings.  
  
    * Stewardship events like community beach cleanups will be staged  
    from one of the houses and/or the garage.  Volunteers doing seal pup  
    patrol will use one of the buildings as shelter, if needed, in  
    inclement weather.  
  
    2.  The lighthouse will be used for interpretive tours focusing on  
    aids to navigation and the history of light stations.  
  
    3.  With approval from the Washington State Historical Society and in  
    partnership with the Washington State Native Plant Society the  
    grounds will be planted with native, drought-tolerant plants that  
    attract a variety of wildlife.  This garden will be used to educate  
    the public about the importance of gardening with native and drought-  
    tolerant plants.  In addition, the grounds will attract birds and  
    wildlife native to the area, which will entertain and educate the  
    public visiting the site.  Tours of the gardens will be given and  
    community volunteers will help plant the garden.  
  
    4.  A trail with interpretive signs telling the story of the piece of  
    land from pre-lighthouse times to the present will  be incorporated  
    into the grounds.  
  
    5. Living history programs telling the story of the United States  
    Coast Guard, lighthouse keepers, and lighthouses and light stations  
    in American Maritime History will be incorporated into many of our  
    educational programs.  
  
    6.  Programs targeting underserved communities will be developed in  
    conjunction with the acquisition of the light station.  The  
    Department of Parks and Recreation is in its second year of  
    partnership with the Seattle School District's Interagency Academy.  
    The Academy was established to address the needs of at-risk youth of  
    color and bring environmental components into their educational  
    experience.  Interdepartmental outreach programs with existing teen  
    programs will also be developed.  
  
    Park Uses  
  
    The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation has always intended to  
    acquire the West Point Lighthouse property should it become  
    available.  This is documented by the following language in the  
    Discovery Park 1972 Master Plan. "The ultimate objective (of the  
    citizens of Seattle) should be the acquisition of all lands which  
    presently comprise the site of Fort Lawton." (From Fort Lawton Park  
    Plan prepared by Dan Kiley and Partners, copyright 1972.  Published  
    by the City of Seattle, Seattle, Washington.)  If successful in our  
    endeavors, the lighthouse station property and its buildings will be  
    integrated into the existing Discovery Park.   Discovery Park  
    provides an oasis of open space and tranquility in the middle of a  
    big city, a sanctuary for wildlife, and an outdoor classroom for  
    people to learn about the natural world.  Maintained in its semi-  
    natural condition, the park continues to offer a biologically rich  
    and diverse natural area for urban dwellers and an unmatched  
    opportunity for environmental education.  
  
    Cultural Uses  
  
    1.  Interpretive lighthouse tours will include information on the  
    role and importance of lighthouses in American history.  
  
    2.  Historic photographs and artifacts will be obtained and housed  
    out by the lighthouse.  Docents will have the building open on the  
    weekend for people to tour and ask questions.  
  
    3.  Interpretive tours of the entire peninsula will be given that  
    will describe the history of the area including the fort years and  
    the lighthouse.  
  
    4.  Exhibits will be displayed in the houses or the garage that deal  
    with the historical uses of the property.  
  
    5.  An interpretive trail on the grounds of the lighthouse is planned  
    that will tell the story of this piece of property from pre-  
    lighthouse years to the present.  
  
    6.  Living history programs telling the story of the United States  
    Coast Guard, lighthouse keepers, and lighthouses and light stations  
    in American Maritime History will be incorporated into many of our  
    educational programs.  
  
    7.   Overnight programs will be implemented and have a cultural  
    component such as a living history program or storytelling.  
  
    Recreational Uses  
  
    1.  The public will use this area for bird watching.  
  
    2.  The public will use the grounds for other wildlife viewing.  
  
    3.  The public will have the opportunity to walk the grounds and  
    beach areas for recreation and exercise.  
  
    4.  The public will enjoy photographing the grounds, the buildings  
    and vista views.  
  
    5.  Overnight programs will have a recreational component such as  
    campfires, storytelling, or singing songs.  
  
    6.  The lighthouse will be open to people who travel around looking  
    at lighthouses as a recreational activity.  We will have lighthouse  
    information, postcards, maps, and a passport stamp in one of the  
    buildings.  
  
    Suitability of the property for the proposed uses and the  
    compatibility of the proposed revenue producing activities with the  
    historical and/or architectural character of the property.  
  
    The proximity of this property to the Puget Sound and the fact that  
    this property is within an existing park with established and on-  
    going nature interpretation and history programs make the West Point  
    site a very valuable asset that will expand and enhance the Seattle  
    Department of Parks and Recreation's nature interpretation programs.  
    In the spring and the summer when the tides are low, Discovery Park  
    staff leads many hikes on the beach, emphasizing the inter-tidal  
    community.  Year-round, Discovery Park conducts geology programs and  
    bird programs that focus on the marine environment.  The day camps,  
    mentioned above, also include a beach day that focuses on the Puget  
    Sound.  Currently, Discovery Park provides these programs and  
    transports the public, via van shuttle, to and from the Environmental  
    Learning Center down to the beach.  With the acquisition of the  
    houses and the grounds, this property will become an education annex  
    of Discovery Park's Environmental Learning Center.  
  
    In addition, the buildings are suitable for housing interpretive  
    exhibits, setting up a classroom space and providing groups with  
    shelter in case of inclement weather.  Discovery Park leads a number  
    of stewardship activities such as educating people about not  
    approaching wildlife such as seal pups and hosting beach cleanups.  
    These activities would be much more inviting if there was an indoor  
    space to warm up in.  
  
    The lighthouse property is adjacent to the wastewater treatment plant  
    for King County.  King County has expressed interest in partnering  
    with the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation on an exhibit on  
    the King County wastewater treatment process.  
  
    Traditionally, the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation has  
    hosted overnight programs at unique sites within the system as  
    fundraisers.  Examples are overnights at the Woodland Park Zoo and  
    the Seattle Aquarium.  The West Point Light Station houses would  
    become part of this tradition.  Having buildings already existing at  
    an area so rich in cultural and natural history makes them perfect  
    for this revenue-producing activity.  Overnight programs would  
    highlight the history of the site, take advantage of the proximity to  
    the inter-tidal community during nighttime low tides, and make use of  
    the existing fire ring for meal preparation, storytelling, and  
    singing.  
  
    Acquisition of the West Point Light Station would allow the Seattle  
    Department of Parks and Recreation and Discovery Park to expand  
    program options by offering the people of the region access to an  
    historic light station.  Discovery Park will take advantage of this  
    opportunity by providing living history programs and historic  
    exhibits to the people of this area.  The fact that a person can see  
    two of the six other lighthouses in the area with the aid of  
    binoculars, adds to the educational opportunities at this site for  
    teaching about the role of lighthouses in the Puget Sound area.  
  
    The fact that this lighthouse is located in an urban area provides  
    the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation a unique opportunity  
    to introduce the history of lighthouses and other related topics to  
    an urban audience. The Department will offer educational maritime,  
    marine biology and Puget Sound environmental stewardship programs to  
    people of all ages and, in particular, to undeserved communities,  
    including economically disadvantaged persons, and ethnic and racial  
    minorities. Urban areas, like Seattle, include a wide variety of  
    population groups who may not have had the opportunity to take  
    advantage of this rich heritage. Taking advantage of the available  
    Untied States Coast Guard lighthouse curriculum for K-4 students,  
    Discovery Park staff will develop a school program for city youth  
    pertaining to lighthouses.  The staff will combine this program with  
    a marine education program to develop a rich and varied day of  
    maritime education for Seattle's diverse school groups.  
  
    The open area surrounding the buildings presents an exciting  
    opportunity to plant native plants found in the marine environments.  
    With this garden area, Discovery Park has the chance to inform the  
    public about the importance of native plants, the importance of  
    landscaping for wildlife, and the practicality of landscaping with  
    drought-tolerant plants.  
  
    The West Point Light Station property also allows Discovery Park to  
    expand its efforts to tell the history of this peninsula to the  
    public.  Currently, Discovery Park staffs lead historic programs  
    focusing on the Fort Lawton years and the park years.  With the  
    addition of the light station property, Discovery Park staff can  
    incorporate the light station years into our programs and give the  
    public a more thorough history of this area.  
  
    The acquisition of this property would put Discovery Park in the  
    unique position to partner with local native groups and the Burke  
    Museum at University of Washington. Archeological records indicate  
    that Native Americans have had a history of using this site as a  
    meeting place dating back 4,000 years.  Exhibits highlighting that  
    legacy are proposed to tell the story of how Native Americans  
    traditionally used the area.  Artifacts and photographs pertaining to  
    West Point will be a part of the displays.  
  
    This light station is located on a on a beautiful site extending out  
    into Puget Sound, that provides exceptional territorial views.  The  
    open expanse of Puget Sound, the light station buildings and grounds,  
    and the backdrop of the Olympic Mountains all add to the scenic  
    grandeur of the site.  In addition, the public fascination with  
    lighthouses will bring many people to this site.  Discovery Park will  
    take advantage of this attraction to educate people about the history  
    of the area, the connection between people and the marine  
    environment, and their role in preserving these historic sites and  
    the marine environment.  Because of its location the site is uniquely  
    situated to be an educational center for classes about the natural  
    history of shorebirds, water birds, marine mammals and the inter-  
    tidal community.  
  
    Differentiation between public-use activities and revenue-producing  
    activities  
  
    Many of the uses and activities Discovery Park has planned for this  
    property are both public uses and revenue-producing uses.  Discovery  
    Park charges fees for many of its programs to pay for the cost of  
    producing the program.  All of the money goes to the Discovery Park  
    Advisory Council, a non-profit organization that partners with the  
    Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation.  Information regarding  
    the council is included in the management plan portion of this  
    application.  
  
    Discovery Park will produce revenue, in part, by selling products  
    related to the lighthouse and the history of the area.  This activity  
    seems appropriate because many of the visitors will be there because  
    of their interest in the lighthouse and its history and architecture.  
    Providing this literature for sale is a public service.  
  
    Public-use Activities  
  
    * Viewing of the light station itself along with artifacts and  
    historic photographs.  
  
    * Viewing of the inside of the houses and the garage along with the  
    interpretive exhibits.  
  
    * Walking around the grounds of the light station and interpretive  
    native garden.  
  
    * Attending programs on the history of the area.  
  
    * Asking questions of park staff and experts in certain areas  
    pertaining to lighthouse history or Coast Guard history, or aids to  
    navigation.  
  
    * Attending living history programs.  (Possible minimal fee to offset  
    cost of producing program.)  
  
    *  Attending natural history walks and talks.  
  
    * Taking photographs of the buildings, the surrounding area, and the  
    grounds.  
  
    * Becoming volunteers and helping with various activities, i.e.  
    giving programs, providing information, helping with maintenance,  
    doing beach cleanups, etc.  
  
    * Volunteer involvement in community stewardship "work parties" on  
    the grounds or surrounding areas.  
  
    * Attending or volunteering for history tours with the Magnolia  
    Historical Society.  
  
    Revenue-Producing Activities  
  
    *  Selling lighthouse paraphernalia, scenery-related products, and  
    natural and cultural history-related products.  
  
    * Nature day camp and overnight programs.  
  
    * Organized group programs.  
  
    Identification of portions of the property to which public access  
    will be denied or restricted.  
  
    The public will only be denied access to two areas of the property.  
    They will be denied access to the portion of the lighthouse that  
    actually houses the lens.  Access to this area is potentially  
    dangerous and the lens is expensive and fragile.  In addition, the  
    public will be restricted from going into the basement area of the  
    houses and any other areas of the property that may be used for  
    storage, i.e., parts of the garage area and the attic space in the  
    houses.  Access to all the buildings will be restricted to when there  
    is a Discovery Park staff person present on the property.  
  
    Comparison of the planned use of this site with work the Seattle  
    Department of Parks and Recreation and Discovery Park has performed  
    in the past.  
  
    Discovery Park staff has extensive and successful experience with and  
    has shown success in all of the programming that is proposed for this  
    site, except for the living history programs and the lighthouse  
    programs, which are new and dependent on the transfer of the property  
    to the City of Seattle. Discovery Park has offered historic walks of  
    the area since 1987, offering over 40 different tours in the past 16  
    years.  Discovery Park has provided marine education since 1972,  
    offering low tide walks in the spring and the summer to organized  
    groups and the general public as well as drop-in interpretive  
    stations on the weekends.  Discovery Park's nature day camp has been  
    a successful program since 1975 and earned the reputation as one of  
    the most popular and highly regarded camps in the city.  Due to this  
    success, Discovery Park expanded camp offerings for the past four  
    years to include a spring break camp and a mid-winter break camp.  
    This fall, Discovery Park incorporated overnight programs into its  
    offerings as a way of expanding what is offered to the citizens of  
    Seattle and as a way to raise money for day camp programs.  These  
    overnights have been very successful.  Seattle Department of Parks  
    and Recreation has a successful tradition of offering overnight  
    programs at other unique venues such as Woodland Park Zoo and the  
    Aquarium.  
  
    There are two areas where Discovery Park will be breaking new ground.  
    First, in doing living history programs and second, in developing a  
    lighthouse program for school groups.  Discovery Park staff has  
    developed more than 10 school programs ranging from pond life to  
    insects and from bird watching to geology.  All of the programs have  
    garnered positive feedback from parents, students, and teachers.  
    Due to the historical success of Discovery Park staff  in developing  
    and implementing  a variety of  programs on topics relevant to the  
    site for the general public, we are confident of our ability to  
    provide interesting, educational, and professionally presented  
    programs in these new programming areas.  
  
    Another strength of this proposal is the extensive and successful  
    experience that Discovery Park has had in recruiting and utilizing  
    volunteers.  Discovery Park, since its inception, has used volunteer  
    naturalists to assist with programming.  In 1994, Discovery Park  
    embarked on an ambitious endeavor to develop a full-scale docent  
    program where a majority of the user-fee programs would be  
    facilitated by docents.  This has proved to be a huge success.  To  
    date, Discovery Park has 40 docents that lead a variety of programs,  
    including history walks.  Many of these people would be very  
    interested in working on programs at the light station.  In addition,  
    Discovery Park has more than 50 volunteers in the "Adopt-an-Area"  
    habitat restoration program.  Discovery Park also has a 10-member  
    team of volunteers that work on miscellaneous projects like computer  
    work, mailings, library work, and the slide library.  Four years ago  
    Discovery Park staff started working with teens as volunteers.  
    Today, our Junior Naturalist program has about 35 applicants for 21  
    spaces.  The recruitment, training, retention, and recognition of  
    volunteers are not new undertakings for Discovery Park, and the West  
    Point Lighthouse will be a valuable asset in future volunteer  
    recruitment and retention activities.  
  
    Discovery Park is a regional park that already receives a lot of  
    attention from tour groups and tourists from around the region and  
    the world.  Based on this experience, staff will be able to handle  
    the increased attention if the lighthouse becomes a public facility  
    in a professional and attentive manner.  Our core business is public  
    service.  
  
    Discovery Park staff is also experienced in developing partnerships.  
    In addition to our partnership with Historic Seattle in this  
    application, we have a history of partnerships with King County, the  
    Seattle School District's Interagency Academy, the Woodland Park Zoo,  
    the Seattle Audubon Society, area businesses and other supporting  
    agencies.  Interdepartmentally, the Seattle Department of Parks and  
    Recreation has many skilled professionals and a range of resources  
    available to deliver quality interpretive exhibits, panels and  
    programs.  The Seattle Aquarium, environmental learning centers, the  
    Senior Adult Program and Langston Hughes Performing Arts Center have  
    expertise that we can tap into for programs at the West Point  
    Lighthouse.  
  
    In closing, as the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation's  
    largest park and designation as an Environmental Learning Center,  
    Discovery Park is in the unique position of having directly assigned  
    and dedicated staff.  There is a grounds/maintenance staff of six  
    full time personnel; a professional staff of two full-time  
    Naturalists; two full-time Public Education Program Specialists; one  
    half-time Education Program Assistant; three full-time visitor center  
    staff; and a full-time manager who conducts and coordinates programs,  
    as well as manages the overall operation 51 hours a week.  Visitors  
    wishing to gain information about the lighthouse and its offerings  
    will be able to access knowledgeable staff year-round at the  
    environmental learning center, located at the main park entrance.  In  
    addition to the hours of operation, our existing docent program will  
    be expanded and additional public contact hours will be added as  
    public demand grows.  
  
       Financial Plan  
  
    Currently, Discovery Park has a $1.1 million dollar budget.  If the  
    City of Seattle's Department of Parks and Recreation is selected to  
    be the steward of the West Point Light Station, there is a process in  
    place to accept the site from the National Parks Service, and through  
    the established legislative processes, to add the site into our  
    inventory.  As previously stated, the Department is continually  
    planning major maintenance projects that are necessary to protect the  
    parks system's capital assets.  Each biennium prior to the  
    preparation of the capital improvement program, we assess the  
    physical condition of assets, conduct preliminary engineering  
    studies, and prioritize needed work.  
  
    At this time, the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation is  
    preparing to identify nearly $5,000,000 in improvements earmarked for  
    Discovery Park that will be made possible by a transfer of this  
    amount from King County.  The money is the result of a settlement  
    agreement related to the expansion of the adjacent West Point  
    Wastewater Treatment Plant.  Of that amount, a citizen's advisory  
    committee has already recommended that $800,000 be made available to  
    the lighthouse.  
  
    See Appendix E for King County Settlement Agreement  
  
    See Appendix F for most recent financial record.  
  
    See Appendix G for report of the West Point Citizen's Advisory  
    Committee for the "Recommendations for Improvements to Discovery Park  
    Under the Terms of the West Point Settlement Agreement"  
  
    See Appendix K for City Organizational Chart  
  
    Budget Summaries for the five years, describing the restoration and  
    on-going maintenance costs to bring the property up to optimal  
    condition and to maintain it in that condition.  
  
    Budget summary for year one:  
  
    Pending formal inspection by certified technicians for hazardous  
    materials such as asbestos and lead paint and whether the resulting  
    recommendations, abatement of such materials will have a $125,000  
    budget allocated.  
  
    Pending the formal inspection by structural engineers to seismically  
    retro-fit the buildings and in the event that retro-fitting will  
    probably be required and a $20,000 budget will be allocated.  
  
    Budget summary for year one:  
  
    Hazardous materials abatement              $125,000.00  
  
    Seismic retro-fitting                $  20,000.00  
  
    Unexpected circumstances endowment fund  
  
    (Carried over from year to year)              $  20,000.00  
  
    Annual maintenance and operations expense          $  30,000.00  
  
    Insurance                    $  10,000.00  
  
    Replacement of garage doors              $    5,000.00  
  
    Total                    $210,000.00  
  
    Budget summary for year two:  
  
    Unexpected circumstances endowment fund  
  
    (Carried over from year to year)              $  20,000.00  
  
    Annual maintenance and operations expense          $  30,000.00  
  
    Insurance                    $  10,000.00  
  
    Total                    $  60,000.00  
  
    Budget summary for year three:  
  
    Unexpected circumstances endowment fund  
  
    (Carried over from year to year)              $  20,000.00  
  
    Annual maintenance and operations expense          $  30,000.00  
  
    Insurance                    $  10,000.00  
  
    Total                    $  60,000.00  
  
    Budget summary for year four:  
  
    Unexpected circumstances endowment fund  
  
    (Carried over from year to year)              $  20,000.00  
  
    Annual maintenance and operations expense          $  30,000.00  
  
    Insurance                    $  10,000.00  
  
    Total                    $  60,000.00  
  
    Budget summary for year five:  
  
    Roof Replacement                $  75,000.00  
  
    Unexpected circumstances endowment fund  
  
    (Carried over from year to year)              $  20,000.00  
  
    Annual maintenance and operations expense          $  30,000.00  
  
    Insurance                    $  10,000.00  
  
    Total                    $135,000.00  
  
    Five Year Total                   $525,000.00  
  
    Identification of capital already invested in this and or any other  
    historic site  
  
    No City of Seattle capital monies have been invested to date in the  
    West Point Light Station.  Should the Seattle Department of Parks and  
    Recreation acquire the site, capital monies would be invested to  
    undertake the program of needed repairs and other work necessary to  
    adaptively reuse the site.  At this time, the Seattle Department of  
    Parks and Recreation is preparing to identify nearly $5,000,000 in  
    improvements to Discovery Park that will be made possible by a  
    transfer of this amount from King County.  The money is the result of  
    a settlement agreement related to the expansion of the adjacent King  
    County Wastewater Treatment Plant.  
  
    As noted previously, extensive preservation work to the grounds and  
    buildings was undertaken in 1988-90 in the Fort Lawton Historic  
    District in Discovery Park.   This work, financed by Seattle voter-  
    approved park bond funds from 1984, the City's Cumulative Reserve  
    Fund, and the State Endangered Landmarks Program, totaled  
    approximately $1,000,000. The Fort Lawton Historic District is  
    maintained as part of Discovery Park by the Seattle Department of  
    Parks and Recreation's annual operating funds.  Included in these  
    budgeted funds is support for ongoing interpretation efforts related  
    to Fort Lawton history.  
  
    E.  Management Plan  
  
    Describe organizational structure  
  
    The City of Seattle has a Mayor and a nine-member City Council, all  
    of whom are elected at large for four-year terms. Offices are non-  
    partisan. City Council terms are overlapping with elections held  
    every odd-numbered year.  All department heads are appointed by the  
    Mayor and report directly to the Mayor including the Superintendent  
    of Parks and Recreation.  The City's financial management, budget,  
    property, personnel, policies, and operating procedures are governed  
    by the authority granted by and procedure of the Seattle City Charter  
    and the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
    The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation is divided into eight  
    operating divisions.  One of the divisions is the Recreation Support  
    Division under which the Environmental Learning Centers (ELCs) fall.  
    There are a total of four ELCs citywide.  Discovery Park ELC is in  
    Discovery Park, which is located next to the West Point Light Station  
    in Seattle's Magnolia neighborhood.  
  
    Describe the relationship with supporting agencies, municipalities  
    and other organizations.  
  
    There are two major partners that form the foundation of the  
    community-based parks and recreation system in the City of Seattle:  
    the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation and the Associated  
    Recreation Council and its many community-based advisory councils.  
  
    Advisory councils are a vital part of the Seattle Department of Parks  
    and Recreation program delivery system. The Seattle Department of  
    Parks and Recreation relies on hundreds of volunteer advisory council  
    members for advice, assistance, and representation of the many  
    Seattle communities.  
  
    In 1976, Seattle City ordinance 105655 was passed authorizing the  
    Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to recognize advisory  
    councils. This ordinance allowed the Seattle Department of Parks and  
    Recreation to directly support Advisory Councils' work by opening  
    space at Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation facilities and  
    making Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation services and  
    supplies available to advisory council programs.  
  
    The Associated Recreation Council (ARC) was formed in 1976 as a  
    501(3) non-profit organization, as a recommendation from the  
    Washington State Auditor.  ARC provides a standardized accounting  
    system for handling the advisory councils' funds that meets both City  
    and State legal requirements.  ARC is comprised of a volunteer board  
    made up of advisory council representatives, at-large members and  
    office staff that handle financial transactions and record keeping  
    for its members' advisory councils.  ARC annually handles millions of  
    dollars for advisory councils.  These funds increase the Seattle  
    Department of Parks and Recreation's ability to provide programming  
    to Seattle citizens beyond the funding level received from the City's  
    annual budget.  
  
    Discovery Park has an advisory council, the Discovery Park Advisory  
    Council (DPAC), which consists of up to 15 diverse and active members  
    from the adjacent community and from the city and region. Like other  
    advisory councils, DPAC has fiduciary, fund-raising, event, and  
    programming oversight responsibilities.  If successful in our  
    endeavors to procure the West Point Light Station, DPAC will play an  
    integral role in revenue-generating activities, grant writing and  
    overall programming of the site.  
  
    This application is being submitted in conjunction with People for  
    Puget Sound.  People for Puget Sound is a 501 (c) (3) organization  
    whose mission is to protect and restore the land waters, and common  
    future of Puget Sound and the Straits.  
  
    People For Puget Sound is a well-respected community organization  
    founded in 1991 to protect and restore the health of the Puget Sound  
    ecosystem. Headquartered in Seattle, People For Puget Sound educates  
    and involves people of all ages through a wide variety of programs,  
    from guided low-tide beach walks to hands-on habitat restoration  
    projects.  As a partner in this effort, People For Puget Sound will  
    provide educational and interpretive programming at the site to  
    increase public understanding of the Puget Sound ecosystem, the  
    threats to its health, and the ways that people can become stewards  
    of the Sound's future.  People For Puget Sound will recruit  
    volunteers as part of the site programming and stewardship, and will  
    work as a partner with the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation  
    and other partners to ensure that the site becomes a home for top-  
    quality, public-oriented recreational, historic, cultural and  
    conservation programs.  
  
    Additionally, application is being submitted in conjunction with  
    Historic Seattle.  Historic Seattle is 501(c)(3) organization whose  
    mission is to educate, advocate and preserve the architectural past  
    for the benefit of the future.  
  
    Founded in 1974, Historic Seattle is the only non-profit membership  
    organization dedicated to the preservation of Seattle and King  
    County's architectural legacy. As both a public development authority  
    and charitable foundation, Historic Seattle is a major advocate for,  
    and participant in, the thoughtful and meaningful preservation and  
    rehabilitation of historic buildings, landscapes, and architectural  
    artifacts. In addition, it develops and delivers educational programs  
    designed to raise awareness of our vibrant architectural heritage.  
  
    Historic Seattle will help assure that the architectural and  
    structural integrity of the Light Station is maintained.  Their  
    participation will help assure that the other buildings can be  
    developed and maintained in a sensitive manner, meeting the highest  
    standards of good preservation practices.  
  
    * Historic Seattle has qualified and expert advisors for preservation  
    activities:  
  
    Historic Seattle is willing and qualified to provide assessment,  
    project management, owner representation, and other services to  
    assure that planned work is in conformance with good preservation  
    practices.  
  
    Integral to the transfer and preservation activities is the  
    determination of local landmark status.  The property will be  
    nominated as a City of Seattle Landmark.  Historic Seattle is  
    prepared to review and prepare the nomination.  The cost of the  
    preparation of the nomination will be addressed in the unexpected  
    circumstances endowment fund to bring the property up to optimal  
    condition and to maintain it in that condition.  
  
    Until such time as the property is considered for Landmark  
    nomination, Historic Seattle would review proposed plans for use and  
    alteration to determine conformance with accepted preservation  
    practices and assure that all work is done in a sensitive manner and  
    meets the highest preservation standards.  
  
    * Historic Seattle has qualified and expert advisors for assessment  
    of property repair and restoration:  
  
    Historic Seattle will participate in the development of a long-range  
    maintenance plan and provide annual assessments of the buildings.  
    The annual maintenance assessment will review and update the repair  
    and restoration plan is an important and necessary part of the  
    ownership program for this facility.  Historic Seattle will annually  
    conduct or as needed, assessments of the site if changes of use at  
    the site are proposed, and address the impact or anticipated impacts  
    of the uses.  
  
    The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation is already partnering  
    with the Burke Museum of Natural History of the University of  
    Washington and their Tribal Oversight Committee (TOC).  The TOC is  
    made up of representatives of the Burke Museum, King County (which  
    owns the site), and the Suquamish, Muckleshoot and Tulalip tribes.  
    They have funding to do educational programs and install interpretive  
    signs highlighting the archeological significance of Discovery Park  
    with early Native American settlements in the area.  
  
    Appendix H:  Insurance Binder and certificate for the property  
  
    Appendix I:  Resolution/Certification of Authority to Acquire  
    Property  
  
    Appendix J:  Letters of Support  
  
    Exhibit II:  Environmental Questionnaire  
  
    1.  Please describe the specific property that will be directly  
    affected in terms of its current use and proposed use.  If the land  
    is in a natural state, please provide a brief description with  
    respect to plan and animal life.  
  
    The property proposed for use by the Seattle Department of Parks and  
    Recreation is the West Point Light Station and its surrounding  
    grounds.  These are located on West Point which is situated on the  
    shores of Puget Sound north of downtown Seattle, Washington.  West  
    Point actually demarcates the north end of Elliott Bay.  Downtown  
    Seattle is at the head of Elliott Bay.  Alki Point demarcates the  
    south end of Elliott Bay.  On either side of the Light Station  
    property are beaches known as the north and south beaches of  
    Discovery Park.  Discovery Park is the property of the Seattle  
    Department of Parks and Recreation.  
  
    The Light Station and surrounding environs make up approx 2.0 acres  
    on the point.  The actual light station property is comprised of the  
    light station, a storage shed adjacent to the light station building,  
    a 100-foot expanse of lawn, two houses surrounded by lawn, another  
    expanse of lawn, and the garage building.  A National Oceanic and  
    Atmospheric Administration Weather Station and an aid to navigation  
    radar tower are located within the property.  The entire property is  
    surrounded by a 4-foot high cyclone fence.  
  
    Currently, the West Point Light Station is operating and the  
    surrounding ground that is proposed for use is uninhabited.  It has  
    been vacant since Fall 2002.  The radar tower is in operation.  The  
    tower will be retained by the Coast Guard.  The Weather Station will  
    also remain.  It is proposed that the Seattle Department of Parks and  
    Recreation take over the light station and the two houses and garage.  
    The proposed use by the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation is  
    to incorporate this area into Discovery Park.  There will be  
    educational programs on site and the buildings will be open to the  
    public when park staff is present.  There will be tours of the light  
    station and the other buildings will be used for classroom space,  
    exhibit space, and storage.  
  
    Presently, the land is made up of lawn, some ornamental plants, and  
    invasive non-native plants such as Himalayan blackberry.  There are  
    several native trees scattered throughout the property, i.e. willow  
    sp. and shore pines.  In the proposed use by the Seattle Department  
    of Parks and Recreation, the grounds will be planted with native  
    maritime plants and will also have interpretive panels placed at  
    various sites.  The native trees already present will remain.  
  
    The lawn and non-native plants support White-crowned Sparrows, House  
    Sparrows, European Starlings, Savannah Sparrows, House Finches,  
    American Crows, and American Goldfinches.  With the proposed use of  
    planting a demonstration native plant garden it is envisioned that  
    this area will support a larger population of migratory birds and  
    butterflies such as Red Admirals, Tiger Swallowtails, Sulphur Blues,  
    and Milbert's Tortoiseshells.  
  
    2. Describe the surrounding area.  Is it primarily residential,  
    industrial, agricultural, etc.?  Is the property in a rural, urban,  
    or suburban area?  Has the area been formally zoned for specific  
    uses?  Please provide a map of the immediate area covering  
    approximately one square mile.  
  
    The area surrounding the West Point Light Station is Discovery Park.  
    Discovery Park is a city park within the Seattle Department of Parks  
    and Recreation system.  Discovery Park is 553 acres. Within that  
    acreage are large tracts of forest, two miles of Puget Sound beaches  
    (on the north and south sides of the proposed property), a human-made  
    meadow area with sand dunes and beautiful views of Puget Sound, the  
    Olympic Mountains, and the West Point Light Station, and freshwater  
    wetlands and streams.  The primary purpose of Discovery Park as  
    stated in the Master Plan is "to provide an open space of quiet and  
    tranquility for the citizens of this city - a sanctuary where they  
    might escape the turmoil of the city and enjoy the rejuvenation which  
    quiet and solitude and an intimate contact with nature can bring."*  
    Adhering to the primary function of the park, there is a staff of  
    naturalists that conducts interpretive programs for people around the  
    region.  Topics of these programs range from spiders, to intertidal  
    explorations, to bird walks, to native plant walks.  Annual  
    visitation at Discovery Park is approximately 150,000 people.  
    Through our education programs and visitation to the Environmental  
    Learning Center, park staff has face to face contact with  
    approximately 75,000 people annually.  
  
    Several agencies retain property within Discovery Park.  The Federal  
    Aviation Administration has a radar tower within the park.  The Navy  
    maintains three different tracts of military housing within the park.  
    The United Indians of All Tribes Foundation leases property from the  
    City of Seattle within the park.  Recently, the Army vacated an area  
    they owned within the park.  That property was then turned over to  
    the City of Seattle and is now part of the park.  Finally, the King  
    County Wastewater Treatment Facility is located within the park and  
    is adjacent to the light station property.  It is surrounded by a  
    wall that is planted with native plants to screen it from the public  
    view.  
  
    The peninsula that is Discovery Park sits in Seattle's Magnolia  
    neighborhood.  This area is located five miles from downtown Seattle,  
    and it is considered an urban, primarily residential, neighborhood.  
    According to the Seattle Department of Construction and Land Use, the  
    area around the West Point Light Station is zoned single-family  
    housing with other permitted uses.  
  
    See Appendix A for maps of surrounding area.  
  
    3.  If the proposed action is in a floodplain or affects a  
    floodplain, please list all pertinent restrictions (with citations)  
    on land use under Federal, State, and local laws and regulations, and  
    any actions applicant proposes to mitigate foreseeable adverse  
    effects.  
  
    The West Point Light Station is not on a floodplain therefore, none  
    of the proposed actions will affect a floodplain.  
  
    4.  Will the proposed action directly or indirectly affect a wetland?  
    Please list any pertinent Federal, State and local wetland  
    regulations and any actions applicant proposes to mitigate  
    foreseeable adverse effects.  
  
    The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation proposes to continue  
    operation of the West Point Light Station along with opening the  
    station to the public at designated times and conducting education  
    programs on the site in existing facilities with no material  
    expansion or alteration of any structure envisioned.  The only  
    alteration of the site may be to take out the lawn and put in native  
    plants.  The wetland in the area is the shoreline of Puget Sound  
    which is outside the grounds of the site and protected by riprap.  
    Therefore, it is envisioned that no action will directly or  
    indirectly affect any wetland in the area.  
  
    5.  Will the proposed action have a direct or indirect effect on any  
    Federally or State-listed endangered species?  If so, please describe  
    any impacts as well as any actions applicant proposes in order to  
    mitigate foreseeable adverse effects.  
  
    There are no foreseeable adverse effects to the actions proposed for  
    the light station by Discovery Park or the Seattle Department of  
    Parks and Recreation.  The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation  
    proposes to continue operation of the West Point Light Station along  
    with opening the station to the public at designated times and  
    conducting education programs on the site in existing facilities with  
    no material expansion or alteration of any structure envisioned.  The  
    only alteration of the site may be to take out the lawn and put in  
    native plants.  The planting of native plants may directly or  
    indirectly have a positive effect on an endangered species unknown at  
    this time.  The positive effect would be to create more habitats for  
    all wildlife in the area.  
  
    6.  Is it reasonable foreseeable that the proposed activity will have  
    a direct or indirect effect on natural resources, land uses, or water  
    uses in the coastal zone?  If so, describe how the applicant will  
    comply with the State's enforceable and mandatory coastal zone  
    policies.  Please describe any impacts as well as any actions  
    applicant proposes in order to mitigate foreseeable adverse effects.  
  
    The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation proposes to continue  
    operation of the West Point Light Station along with opening the  
    station to the public at designated times and conducting education  
    programs on the site in existing facilities with no material  
    expansion or alteration of any structure envisioned.  The only  
    alteration of the site may be to take out the lawn and put in native  
    plants.  The lawn is not considered in the coastal zone as it is at  
    least 100 feet back from the coast and behind a wall of riprap on  
    both sides.  Therefore, no effect directly or indirectly is  
    envisioned for any of the natural resources or land or water uses in  
    the coastal zone.  
  
    7.   Approximately how many visitors will be introduced to the area  
    on a daily basis during operations?  Approximately how many vehicles  
    will be introduced into the area on a daily basis as a result of the  
    operation of the facility?  Will there be any identifiable increased  
    traffic in the surrounding area as result of the proposed use of the  
    property?  
  
    The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation currently owns and  
    uses the area surrounding the West Point Light Station.  Discovery  
    Park is an urban open space park that surrounds the light station.  
    There is a full-time education staff housed at Discovery Park.  
    Discovery Park has conducted education programs in the area  
    surrounding the light station since the 1970s.  There are daily  
    school programs and summer camp programs conducted on the beaches in  
    the spring and summer just outside the lighthouse.  Approximately 120  
    students attend beach programs three times per week every other week  
    in the spring and summer.  In addition, programs are conducted on the  
    weekends for the general public.  Approximately 50 people attend  
    these programs.  Winter and fall visitation to this area is  
    approximately 20 people per day on the weekends and 10 people daily  
    during the week.  The Department estimates that visitation will  
    increase by 25% when the light station is in operation and when  
    education programs are happening.  This increase would result from  
    the increased programming occurring at those times.  
  
    Currently, vehicle traffic is restricted through the park.  Vehicle  
    access to the light station area is limited to three different  
    populations.  The first group is those people who cannot walk the1.5  
    miles to the beach: specifically people with children under 5, people  
    over 62, or with some physical reason that they cannot make the trip.  
    The second group is vehicles going to the King County Wastewater  
    Treatment Facility.  The third group is those people doing a program  
    with Discovery Park staff.  The first and third groups are given a  
    permit to drive their vehicles through the park and down to the  
    beach.  In addition, Discovery Park runs a shuttle service on the  
    weekends in the summer for the public to get from the Discovery Park  
    Environmental Learning Center to the beach area and back for a small  
    fee.  
  
    The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation does not foresee  
    changing this policy with the operation of the light station and the  
    education programs.  It is estimated that vehicle traffic will  
    increase by 10% due to staff driving down to the grounds.  Discovery  
    Park will continue to limit vehicle traffic by providing shuttle  
    service from three other parking lots down to the light station for  
    those attending programs.  Those wanting to tour the light station  
    will continue to walk or get permits if they are unable to walk.  In  
    addition, Discovery Park will continue to run a shuttle service on  
    the weekends in the summer from the Discovery Park Environmental  
    Learning Center to the light station and back.  
  
    8.   How much water will the applicant use on the property in a  
    normal day?  What system will provide the water?  What system will  
    provide the water (name and address of system)?  How much sewage will  
    the applicant generate on a daily basis?  Will the sewage be handled  
    by a sewage treatment facility?  If so, please provide the name and  
    address of the system.  
  
    The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation proposes to use this  
    property for public education programs.  The use of water would be  
    limited to flushing toilets, washing hands, and food preparation.  A  
    washer and dryer may also be sited on the premises for occasional  
    use.  Based on formulas obtained from Seattle Public Utilities, the  
    estimated daily water usage is 250 gallons per day.  The Seattle  
    Public Utilities provides the water.  The address of the system is  
    Seattle Public Utilities, 700 Fifth Ave, Key Tower, 49th floor,  
    Seattle, WA.  98104.  
  
    The sewage generated on a daily basis will be 230 gallons.  This will  
    be handled by the King County Wastewater Treatment Facility located  
    at 1400 Utah West, Seattle, WA  98199.  It is adjacent to the West  
    Point Light Station.  
  
    9.  Will the proposed use of the property likely result in the use,  
    storage, release and/or disposal of toxic, hazardous, or radioactive  
    materials, or in the exposure of people to those materials?  If so,  
    please describe these proposed activities.  
  
    The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation proposes to use this  
    property for educational purposes.  There will be no use, storage,  
    release and/or disposal of toxic, hazardous, or radioactive materials  
    on the site.  The understanding is that there is lead paint on the  
    property.  The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation will take  
    the necessary measures to ensure no public is exposed to this  
    material.  
  
    10.  Will the proposed use of the property destroy or decrease access  
    to any known or potential archeological sites?  If so, please  
    describe any impacts as well as any actions applicant proposes in  
    order to mitigate foreseeable adverse effects.  
  
    The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation's proposed use of the  
    West Point Light Station includes use of the existing structures and  
    site at the West Point Light Station with no material expansion or  
    alteration to the structures.  There will be alteration in the site  
    in that a planned use is to turn the lawn into a native plant  
    demonstration garden.  To do that some digging will be needed, but  
    only at the surface level to remove the turf.  Therefore, it is not  
    anticipated that any archeological sites will be disturbed.  If there  
    were any artifacts discovered, however, the Seattle Department of  
    Parks and Recreation would immediately contact the State Office of  
    Archaeology.  In addition, the Seattle Department of Parks and  
    Recreation's planned use of the site is to open it up to public use  
    so access will be increased, not decreased.  Finally, the Seattle  
    Department of Parks and Recreation is working with the Burke Museum  
    and a tribal oversight committee to plan exhibits, programs and  
    interpretive panels on the historic use of the site so any  
    archaeological information will be made accessible to the public.  
  
    11.  Will the proposed use of the property violate or require a  
    variance from any federal, Tribal, State or local laws pertaining to  
    the visual environment, odors, public health, and noise?  If so,  
    please describe any impacts as well as any actions applicant proposes  
    in order to mitigate foreseeable adverse effects.  
  
    The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation proposes to use the  
    West Point Light Station for educational and cultural purposes with  
    no alteration of the structures.  The only alteration to the site  
    will be to turn the lawn into a demonstration native plant garden  
    with paths open to the public.  Therefore, this proposed use will not  
    violate or require any variance from any Federal, Tribal, State or  
    local laws pertaining to the visual environment, odors, public  
    health, or noise.  
  
    12.  Will the proposed use of the property violate or require a  
    variance from any Federal, Tribal, State or local laws pertaining to  
    land, air or water pollution or land use?  If so, please describe any  
    impacts as well as any actions applicant proposes in order to  
    mitigate foreseeable adverse effects.  
  
    The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation proposes to use the  
    West Point Light Station property for educational and cultural  
    purposes with no alteration of any structures.  The only site  
    alteration would be to replace the lawn with a native plant garden.  
    That activity would not take place on any shoreline or in any  
    intertidal area.  Therefore, no violation of any Federal, Tribal,  
    State, or local laws pertaining to land, air or water pollution or  
    land use is foreseen.  
  
    *  From Fort Lawton Park Plan prepared by Dan Kiley and Partners,  
    copyright 1972.  Published by the City of Seattle, Seattle,  
    Washington.  
  
    Prepared by Anne Peterson, Public Education Program Specialist at  
    Discovery Park for 14 years.  B. S. Natural Resource Interpretation,  
    1987, Humboldt State University, Arcata, CA.  Mailing address:  3801  
    W. Government Way, Seattle, WA.  98199, Phone:  206-386-9110, Fax:  
    206-684-0195, Email:  anne.peterson@seattle.gov  
  
    Seattle Parks and Recreation Department Application to NPS,  
    Department of Interior for West Point Light Station  
