* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114523**   
**Ordinance Number: 121124**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE amending the 2002 Budget; increasing appropriations for a department in the 2002 Budget; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 21, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Conlin, Wills)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 2, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 1, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
**Note:** 2002 Budget Supplemental  
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 7, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** BUDGET, LAW-DEPARTMENT  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114523.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114523  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE amending the 2002 Budget; increasing appropriations for a  
    department in the 2002 Budget; all by a three-fourths vote of the City  
    Council.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred  
    in 2002, but for which insufficient appropriations were made, the  
    appropriations for the following in the 2002 Budget are increased from  
    the funds shown, as follows:  
  
    Fund                    Department       Budget Control Level     Amount  
  
    General Subfund         Law              Civil Law (J1300)        $146,573  
    (00100)                 Department  
  
    General Subfund         Law              Criminal Law (J1500)       $6,779  
    (00100)                 Department  
  
    Total                                                             $153,352  
  
    Section 2.  In accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, by reason of the  
    facts above stated, the foregoing appropriations are made to meet  
    actual necessary expenditures of the City for which insufficient  
    appropriations have been made due to causes which could not reasonably  
    have been foreseen at the time of the making of the 2002 Budget.  
  
    Section 3.  Any acts consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 4.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of all of the members of the  
    City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed by me in open  
    session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________,  
    2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    3/27/03  
    version #1  
