* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114548**   
**Ordinance Number: 121150**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit"); authorizing the amendment of the "Fourth Supplement to MOA for Intergovernmental Cooperation (April 20, 1998) between Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority (Sound Transit) and The City of Seattle for the Central Link Light Rail Project;" and authorizing the acceptance of funds from Sound Transit.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 12, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 22, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 22, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 28, 2003   
**Committee:** Transportation   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN   
  
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, STRATEGIC-PLANNING-OFFICE, DEPARTMENT-OF-DESIGN-CONSTRUCTION-AND-LAND-USE, MASS-TRANSIT, INTERGOVERNMENTAL-RELATIONS, TRANSPORTATION, CITY-EMPLOYEES, REGIONAL-TRANSIT-AUTHORITY, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, DESIGN-REVIEW  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 119767, 119993, 120120  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114548.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114548  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit  
    Authority ("Sound Transit"); authorizing the amendment of the "Fourth  
    Supplement to MOA for Intergovernmental Cooperation (April 20, 1998)  
    between Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority (Sound Transit)  
    and The City of Seattle for the Central Link Light Rail Project;" and  
    authorizing the acceptance of funds from Sound Transit.  
  
    WHEREAS, on April 20, 1998, pursuant to Ordinance 118927, the City  
    executed a Memorandum of Agreement for Intergovernmental Cooperation  
    with Sound Transit regarding Light Rail Development ("MOA"); and  
  
    WHEREAS, on October 25, 1999, pursuant to Ordinance 119514, the City  
    executed an agreement with Sound Transit entitled "First Supplement to  
    Memorandum of Agreement For Intergovernmental Cooperation for the  
    Central Link Light Rail Transit Project" ("First Supplement"); and  
  
    WHEREAS, On October 9, 2000, Ordinance 120120 authorized the Director  
    of the Strategic Planning Office to execute an agreement with Sound  
    Transit entitled "Second Supplement to the Memorandum of Agreement for  
    Intergovernmental Cooperation for the Central Link Light Rail Transit  
    Project" ("Second Supplement"), in recognition of Sound Transit's  
    request to continue City staff involvement with respect to not only  
    the design process but also the commencement of construction  
    activities for the Central Link Project; and  
  
    WHEREAS, due to changes in Sound Transit's budget and schedule, Sound  
    Transit did not execute the Second Supplement authorized by Ordinance  
    120120; and  
  
    WHEREAS, On May 14, 2001, Ordinance 120363 authorized the execution of  
    the "Third Supplement to Memorandum of Agreement For Intergovernmental  
    Cooperation for the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project;" and  
  
    WHEREAS, On April 22, 2002, Ordinance 120784 authorized execution of  
    the "Fourth Supplement to MOA for Intergovernmental Cooperation (April  
    20, 1998) between Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority  
    (Sound Transit) and the City of Seattle for the Central Link Light  
    Rail Transit Project" ("Fourth Supplement"); and  
  
    WHEREAS, on August 12, 2002, Ordinance 120883 created an additional  
    "contingency" for work effort under the Fourth Supplement; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Sound Transit has requested continued City staff involvement  
    in the design process,  permitting process, and commencement of  
    construction activities for the Central Link Project, and has agreed  
    to reimburse the City for its expenses incurred in connection with  
    such work, all as contemplated in the previously approved Fourth  
    Supplement; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1. As requested by the Director of Transportation and  
    recommended by the Mayor, the Director of Transportation or her  
    designee is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the  
    City of Seattle, an amendment to the "Fourth Supplement to MOA for  
    Intergovernmental Cooperation (April 20, 1998) between Central Puget  
    Sound Regional Transit Authority (Sound Transit) and the City of  
    Seattle for the Central Link Light Rail Project" effective April 1,  
    2002 ("Fourth Supplement") (attached as Exhibit A) providing for Sound  
    Transit to reimburse the City for services provided in support of the  
    light rail project, as follows:  Such amendment may extend the term of  
    the Fourth Supplement through December 31, 2003.  In recognition that  
    the array of services performed by the City under the Fourth  
    Supplement may need to be reallocated during such extended term to  
    accommodate changes in Sound Transit planned activities, such  
    amendment may further authorize the parties thereto to amend Exhibit 2  
    (Scope of Work) to the Fourth Supplement from time to time as may be  
    necessary to reflect such changes.  
  
    Section 2. Funds received from Sound Transit pursuant to the Fourth  
    Supplement shall be deposited in the Transportation Operating Subfund  
    of the Transportation Fund, the Light Fund, the Water Fund, and/or the  
    Drainage/Wastewater Fund as expenses are incurred by these funds.  
  
    Section 3.   Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 4.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed  
    by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day  
    of __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    Exhibit A:  Fourth Supplement to MOA for Intergovernmental Cooperation  
    (April 20, 1998) between Central Puget Sound Regional Transit  
    Authority (Sound Transit) and the City of Seattle for the Central Link  
    Light Rail Project, with Exhibits 1, 2, and 3.  
  
    114548.doc  
    5/4/03  
    version 8  
    t  
  
    FOURTH SUPPLEMENT TO  
    MOA FOR INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION  
    (APRIL 20, 1998) BETWEEN CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT  
    AUTHORITY  
    (SOUND TRANSIT) AND THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
    FOR THE CENTRAL LINK LIGHT RAIL PROJECT  
  
    This Fourth Supplement ("Fourth Supplement") to that certain April  
    20, 1998 Memorandum of Agreement for Intergovernmental Cooperation  
    for the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project ("Project") is  
    entered into by and between the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit  
    Authority ("Sound Transit") and The City of Seattle ("City").  
  
    RECITALS  
  
    A.  The City and Sound Transit entered into an agreement titled  
    "Memorandum of Agreement for Intergovernmental Cooperation Regarding  
    Light Rail Development" on April 20, 1998 ("April 20, 1998 MOA") that  
    sets forth the parties' common and individual objectives with respect  
    to the development of a light rail system within the City of Seattle  
    and that established the foundation of their working relationship  
    with common objectives for cooperation.  
  
    B.  The City and Sound Transit have entered into other previous  
    agreements that are related to the Project including:  
  
    *  An agreement on April 30, 1998 pursuant to which the City provided  
    Geographic Information System ("GIS") products, services, and data to  
    support the activities of Sound Transit ("GIS MOA").  
  
    *  The October 25, 1999 First Supplement to Memorandum of Agreement  
    for Intergovernmental Cooperation for the Central Link Light Rail  
    Transit Project ("First Supplement") for design review services,  
    design development support, utility coordination, implementation  
    coordination, mitigation identification, and analysis and development  
    support activities, through the Central Link Light Rail Project's  
    preliminary engineering phase; and  
  
    *  The June 8, 2001 Third Supplement to Memorandum of Agreement for  
    Interlocal Governmental Cooperation ("Third Supplement") for services  
    to be provided by the City in three major areas:  Public Works,  
    Public Safety, Program Management and Business and Community  
    Assistance (which agreement was a replacement for the unexecuted  
    "Second Supplement to Memorandum of Agreement for Intergovernmental  
    Cooperation for the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project").  
  
    C.  The parties' common and individual objectives set forth in the  
    April 20, 1998 MOA will continue to be observed during the term of  
    this Fourth Supplement, including the principles of intergovernmental  
    cooperation; processes for expedited reviews of project documents;  
    expedited processing of requests for permits and other City  
    approvals; and the process for dispute resolution.  
  
    D.  The City recognizes that Sound Transit has responsibility for  
    acquisition of property and that the Transit-Oriented Development  
    process is governed by Sound Transit Board policy and state and  
    federal regulations.  
  
    E.  As anticipated by the parties in sectionIII.E of the April 20,  
    1998 MOA, Sound Transit desires actions by the City to support the  
    completion of design and initiation of construction of the Central  
    Link Light Rail Project.  This Fourth Supplement, except as otherwise  
    provided herein, shall cover services to be provided by the City in  
    three major areas:  Public Works; Public Safety; Program Management  
    and Business and Community Assistance.  
  
    F.  The April to December 2002 timeframe is a critical period for the  
    Project.  Final design on the majority of contracts will be complete  
    and construction of the Project will begin in this timeframe.  In  
    addition, Sound Transit will develop a Draft Supplemental  
    Environmental Impact Statement for "North Link," the extension of the  
    Project northwards from Convention Place Station.  
  
    G.  Sound Transit recognizes that the City is responsible for  
    administering state and local transportation and land use laws and  
    development regulations that will apply to the development,  
    construction, and operations of the Project.  In addition, the City  
    is responsible for review and approval of plans, utility relocation,  
    managing the City street system, and the public health and welfare of  
    citizens.  
  
    H.  The City of Seattle recognizes that the Central Link Light Rail  
    Transit Project will provide numerous benefits to Seattle's  
    residents, workers, and visitors, and will help the City meet its  
    Comprehensive Plan goals for dense, mixed use urban centers and urban  
    villages connected by high-quality public transit.  In recognition of  
    these and other mutual benefits, the City is committed to providing  
    general support and coordination as typically provided between  
    governmental agencies to facilitate the timely completion of the  
    Project.  
  
    1.0  DEFINITION OF TERMS  
  
    The terms and abbreviations used in this Fourth Supplement and its  
    exhibits, shall be defined and/or identified as follows:  
  
    1.1.  "Central Light Link Rail Project" means an electric light rail  
    project located in the cities of SeaTac, Tukwila and Seattle that is  
    identified in Sound Move, Sound Transit's Ten-Year Regional Transit  
    System Plan.  
  
    1.2.  "City's Standard Plans and Specifications, 2000 Edition," means  
    the contract specifications that will be used by Sound Transit for  
    improvements that will be owned and maintained by the City.  
  
    1.3.   "Contract Specifications" means the contract based  
    modifications to Sound Transit's Link Standard Specifications that  
    may be made by Sound Transit or the City through its contract review  
    process.  
  
    1.4.  "Initial Segment" means the initial 14-mile segment of the  
    Central Link Light Rail Project that will begin at an interim north  
    terminus at Convention Place with passenger service to be provided  
    through Downtown Seattle, South Downtown, Beacon Hill, the Rainier  
    Valley, and Tukwila to an interim south terminus at South 154th to be  
    connected by shuttle bus service to Sea-Tac Airport.  
  
    1.5.   "LPA" means Locally Preferred Alternative.  
  
    1.6.  "Link Standard Specifications" means the general specifications  
    specifically entitled "Sound Transit Link Light Rail Project,  
    Standard Specifications for Facilities Construction, December 2001"  
    that will be used by Sound Transit in its light rail construction  
    contracts.  
  
    1.7.   "North Link" means the northward extension of the Project from  
    Convention Place to the Northgate area.  
  
    1.8.  "Project" means Sound Transit's proposed light rail system  
    within the City of Seattle, as described in Sound Move, Sound  
    Transit's Ten Year Regional Transportation Plan, and as further  
    defined in Board Resolution R2001-16, and the associated public works  
    elements that Sound Transit has agreed to undertake through separate  
    written agreement with the City.  
  
    1.9.   "Sound Move, Sound Transit's Ten Year Regional Transit System  
    Plan" adopted May 31, 1996 means the documents describing Sound  
    Transit's ten-year regional transportation plan.  
  
    1.10.  "Working Day" means any calendar day that is not a Saturday,  
    Sunday, a City or a Sound Transit holiday.  
  
    1.11.  "Permitting Manual" means the manual to be jointly approved by  
    the Sound Transit and City designated representatives, to help Sound  
    Transit and City staff clarify and apply the permit process, identify  
    which permits are necessary under various circumstances, and describe  
    what is required for permit application submittals.  
  
    2.0  SCOPE OF THIS FOURTH SUPPLEMENT  
  
    2.1.  Goals and Objectives.  
  
    The Parties agree to do the following throughout the Project:  
  
    A.  The parties agree to work collaboratively on the Project.  
  
    B.  The City shall provide timely services that will enable Sound  
    Transit to meet its Project deadlines.  
  
    C.  Sound Transit shall effectively manage the Project to provide a  
    quality light rail system in a cost effective and timely manner and  
    within the amount budgeted for this Project.  
  
    D.  The City shall develop and apply innovative state of the art  
    practices in the delivery of Public Works, Public Safety, Program  
    Management and Business and Community Assistance services to  
    facilitate the Project schedule, while addressing the interests of  
    Seattle's business and residential communities within the limitations  
    of Sound Transit's budget.  
  
    E.  Sound Transit shall provide clear and complete design drawings  
    and supplementary information in a timely manner that will allow the  
    City departments an adequate review period to facilitate the City's  
    design review to allow the Project to proceed on schedule.  
  
    F.  The City shall provide clear and complete design reviews from all  
    involved departments and avoid last-minute review comments and the  
    imposition of last-minute requirements after the review comment  
    period.  Both parties shall endeavor to identify and address issues  
    as early as possible during the review process and to communicate  
    clearly with each other.  
  
    G.  Both parties shall participate in regularly scheduled  
    interdisciplinary coordination meetings to address issues that may  
    affect the Project scope, schedule, budget or the community.  
  
    H.  Where appropriate, City and Sound Transit will document key  
    design related decisions.  
  
    I.  To the extent the City is notified of federal grant requirements,  
    the City shall ensure that its performance under this Fourth  
    Supplement is in conformance with the applicable grant requirements  
    including the Federal Transit Administration grant requirements.  
  
    2.2.  Summary of Services under this Fourth Supplement  
  
    Sound Transit shall submit to the City its Project designs, plans and  
    specifications for City review in connection with the implementation  
    of the Project within the City of Seattle.  The City shall provide  
    timely review as is necessary for the issuance of permits and  
    approvals by the City and as described in Exhibits 1 and 2 to this  
    Fourth Supplement, which by this reference are incorporated herein.  
    The City shall also provide in a timely manner its designs for the  
    public works components of the Project and provide such services as  
    are described in Exhibits 1 and 2 for the coordination and  
    integration of the public facilities that will be constructed by  
    Sound Transit and transferred to the City, including the relocation  
    of City owned utilities and new street and park improvements.  
  
    2.3.  Time of Completion and Schedule  
  
    The Project schedule is attached as Exhibit 1.  All of the design  
    review and other tasks identified in the Scope of Work attached as  
    Exhibit 2 shall be completed by the end of 2002, according to the  
    milestones identified in the detailed schedule that is summarized in  
    the attached Exhibit 1, except as otherwise indicated in Exhibit 2 or  
    in this Fourth Supplement.  
  
    2.4.  Designated Representatives  
  
    The Designated Representatives for each party are as follows:  
  
    Ahmad Fazel, Director,  
  
    Link Light Rail Project  
  
    Sound Transit  
  
    401 S. Jackson Street  
  
    Seattle, Washington 98104  
  
    Phone:  (206) 398-5389  
  
    Jonathan Layzer, Strategic Transportation Advisor  
  
    Strategic Planning Office  
  
    The City of Seattle  
  
    600 4th Ave., #300  
  
    Seattle WA 98104  
  
    Phone: (206) 684-8084  
  
    Each of the parties may change its own Designated Representative in  
    such party's discretion, and the party making any such change shall  
    give notice of such change to the other party.  
  
    2.5.  Responsibilities of Sound Transit  
  
    The following services shall be performed by Sound Transit under this  
    Fourth Supplement in support of the Project:  
  
    A.  Develop designs, plans and specifications in connection with its  
    construction of the Project, except in the case of designs for City  
    Light utility relocations, which shall be developed by City Light.  
  
    B.  Submit its designs, plans and specification to the City for  
    review pursuant to the procedures outlined in this Fourth Supplement.  
  
    C.  Take the lead in coordinating regular Sound Transit/City team  
    communication/meetings and the Transit Oriented Development process.  
  
    D.  Manage and coordinate its consultants' requests for information  
    from the City.  
  
    E.  Assume responsibility for acquiring all necessary property,  
    easements and rights of entry for relocation, design and construction  
    activities related to the Project, except as otherwise agreed to by  
    the Parties.  
  
    F.  Work with the City to provide notice to private utilities for  
    their relocation.  
  
    G.  Help to staff and support the Case Management Review Committee to  
    resolve design issues for persons or entities impacted by the  
    Project.  
  
    2.6.  City's Roles and Responsibilities  
  
    The following services shall be performed by the certain City  
    departments and offices assigned such tasks under this Fourth  
    Supplement in support of the Project:  
  
    A.  Organize interdepartmental implementation teams, authorize these  
    teams to expedite review and other timely services to Sound Transit,  
    and work within such interdepartmental review teams to achieve  
    consensus on policy issues.  
  
    B.  Review and provide timely unified, coordinated, consistent  
    comments to Sound Transit on Sound Transit's designs, plans,  
    specifications, technical reports, and environmental documents.  
  
    C.  Provide a confirmation review through Seattle Transportation to  
    ensure that all City comments on the 90%-Complete Submittal have been  
    incorporated into the 100%-Complete Submittal, or otherwise resolved  
    by Sound Transit and the City prior to permit approval.  
  
    D.  Provide expedited review of Project permit applications through  
    the Department of Design, Construction, and Land Use.  
  
    E.  Provide designs and review of designs for the public works  
    components to be performed by Sound Transit that will be ultimately  
    owned and maintained by the City.  
  
    F.  Work with Sound Transit to identify, evaluate and select  
    appropriate and final mitigation measures for inclusion in  
    environmental documents, permits, ordinances and resolutions.  
  
    G.  Provide public safety related services through the City's Fire  
    Department (SFD) (design review and tunnel construction rescue  
    proposal) and the Seattle Police Department (design review and  
    traffic control during construction).  
  
    H.  Provide program management, business and community assistance  
    services related to overall program management and the relocation of  
    businesses within the Project area and coordinate with Sound Transit  
    in providing business relocation assistance.  
  
    I.  When practicable, integrate Sound Transit construction plans and  
    schedules with plans and schedules of other City capital and  
    maintenance projects to minimize the conflicts and maximize  
    efficiencies for both parties.  
  
    J.  Provide Sound Transit with timely access to public City records  
    and plans.  
  
    K.  Work with Sound Transit to provide accessible, accurate, and  
    timely information and to maximize public involvement in Sound  
    Transit and City decision making related to the Project.  
  
    L.   Provide notice to private utilities of any utility facilities  
    that must be relocated and provide for the enforcement of such  
    notices to relocate.  
  
    M.  Help staff and support the Case Management Review Committee to  
    resolve design issues for persons or entities impacted by the  
    project.  
  
    N.  Provide plans and specifications for the work to be performed by  
    the City to Sound Transit for its review and comment.  
  
    2.7.  Specific Tasks to be Performed by Individual City Departments  
    and Offices  
  
    The specific tasks to be performed by individual City departments and  
    offices and the schedule for completion of these tasks are described  
    in Exhibit 2.  
  
    3.0  DESIGN SUBMITTALS  
  
    To ensure uniformity and consistency in the design and review process  
    the parties have agreed to the design completion levels defined below  
    (namely, "30%-Complete Submittal," "60%-Complete Submittal," "90%-  
    Complete Submittal," and "100% -Complete Submittal"), as well as  
    standards and specifications specified in this section.  Sound  
    Transit shall work in close cooperation with the City during the  
    preparation of preliminary and final plans for the Project to ensure  
    that, to the greatest extent possible, the objectives identified in  
    the April 20, 1998 MOA and this Fourth Supplement are achieved.  
  
    3.1.  Level of Completion Defined.  
  
    Each level of design completion as used in this Fourth Supplement and  
    its Exhibits shall be defined as follows.  
  
    3.1.1.  30%-Complete Submittal - A submittal that presents the basic  
    concept of the Project, including advanced detail on route alignment;  
    station locations; station functional layouts and preliminary station  
    architectural concepts; existing utilities and proposed major utility  
    line re-locations; traffic lane configurations; structural types,  
    sizes and locations; urban design concepts; new and proposed right-  
    of-way limits; extent of roadway modifications; and other supporting  
    concepts to define the intent of the Project. The submittal will  
    include technical memoranda documenting trade off studies undertaken  
    in support of the proposed design.  
  
    3.1.2.  60%-Complete Submittal - A submittal that is sufficiently  
    complete to illustrate the entire scope of the work under design so  
    that all reviewers can comment on the overall scope of the Project.  
    This submittal shall also include an updated cost estimate. (This  
    submittal is intended to ensure that new, never before seen items of  
    significance do not appear for the first time in the 90%-Complete  
    Submittal.)  
  
    3.1.3.  90%-Complete Submittal - The submittal that includes  
    drawings, special provisions, supplemental technical specifications,  
    updated quantity estimates, and order of magnitude cost estimates  
    that are essentially complete with only items of insignificance  
    needing detailing or checking.  All calculations shall be completed  
    and checked in accordance with established quality control  
    procedures.  The structural calculations need not be sent to the  
    City, but will be made available for review at Sound Transit offices.  
    Drawings shall be nearly complete for bidding purposes and shall have  
    incorporated or resolved all comments made during design review of  
    the 60%-Complete Submittal, and other informal reviews.  Unresolved  
    comments shall be identified and addressed to the satisfaction of  
    both parties.  
  
    3.1.4.  100%-Complete Submittal.  The submittal that is sufficiently  
    complete for the City's permit approval as confirmed by Seattle  
    Transportation.  
  
    3.2.   City's Standard Specifications.  
  
    Except as further provided in this subsection, the City's Standard  
    Plans and Specifications, 2000 Edition, shall be used for all  
    Project-related work that either (a) is in any City right-of-way, or  
    (b) affects, in any way, any utility or other capital facility or  
    asset that is currently owned or controlled by the City or is  
    expected to be maintained by the City.  
  
    3.3.  Deviation from City's Standard Specifications.  
  
    3.3.1.  The City's Designated Representative or another official  
    designated by the City, may permit, from time to time, a deviation  
    from the requirements of Subsection 3.2 whenever:  
  
    A.  Sound Transit has requested such permission in writing and has  
    provided a justification for such request and an explanation for how  
    Sound Transit intends to address anticipated City concerns if such  
    permission were granted, either in whole or in part, and a commitment  
    to fund additional Project costs as required; and  
  
    B.  The City's Designated Representative, or other official  
    designated by the City, has consulted and reached consensus among the  
    head(s) or designated representative(s) of each City department and  
    office that has an interest in the matter; and  
  
    C.  Sound Transit's requested deviation from the City's Standard  
    Plans and Specifications, 2000 Edition, is deemed by such City  
    department and office heads or their designated representatives to be  
    acceptable under the circumstances; and  
  
    D.  If necessary, the City's Designated Representative, or other  
    official designated by the City, has been authorized to grant such  
    permission, which permission shall be expressed in writing by the  
    City's Designated Representative or other official designated by the  
    City, and shall not be used as a precedent for future actions.  
  
    3.3.2.  If any conflict is discovered between Sound Transit or City  
    work under this Fourth Supplement and a City ordinance or other law,  
    code or regulation, the City is legally obligated, and reserves the  
    right, notwithstanding any other provision in this Fourth Supplement,  
    to require changes to bring the Project work into compliance with any  
    applicable ordinance, law, code or regulations; provided that as  
    applied to the work to be completed under this Fourth Supplement, the  
    City's 2000 Standard Plans and Specifications or a deviation  
    authorized pursuant to Section 3.3 shall control in the event of a  
    conflict between the City's 2000 Standard Plans and Specifications  
    and any subsequent revision.  
  
    3.4.  Sound Transit Standard Specifications.  
  
    Sound Transit has developed a set of Link Standard Specifications to  
    be used on each of the Sound Transit civil facilities construction  
    contracts.  Any contract specific modifications of the Link Standard  
    Specifications shall be accomplished by the preparation of Contract  
    Specifications.  The City shall review each Contract Specification  
    package as part of the detailed schedule summarized in Exhibit 1.  If  
    the City requests modifications to the Link Standard Specifications  
    for a particular contract under review, Sound Transit shall make such  
    modifications through Contract Specifications.  
  
    3.5.  Submission and Review of Design Submittals  
  
    3.5.1.  To expedite design submittal review and to improve product  
    quality, design review and coordination sessions will be held at  
    least on a bi-weekly basis throughout the design phase between  
    affected City departments and offices and Sound Transit.  
  
    3.5.2.  To ensure the development of the highest quality system, and  
    the most cost-effective resolution of problems, all efforts will be  
    made to identify and resolve major design issues at the earliest  
    possible stage of design development.  
  
    3.6.  City Review.  
  
    The City's review of Sound Transit's Design Submittals shall proceed  
    as follows:  
  
    3.6.1.  Sound Transit shall submit Project submittals and  
    specifications to the City's Designated Representative, or other  
    official designated by the City, for review and comment by various,  
    appropriate City departments and offices.  Sound Transit shall submit  
    thirty-five (35) complete copies of each plan package. During 2002,  
    the City shall review plans at the 30%-, 60%-, 90%- and 100%-Complete  
    Submittal stages, as defined by this Fourth Supplement.  Plans shall  
    be submitted in accordance with the City's CADD (Computer Aided  
    Design/Drafting) standards, unless otherwise agreed to by the City.  
  
    3.7.  For Sound Transit performed work:  
  
    3.7.1.  Sound Transit or its consultants shall develop the actual  
    design plans for the Project, except in the case of relocation of  
    City Light facilities.  
  
    3.7.2.  Sound Transit shall involve the City and seek input in the  
    early stages of design development.  
  
    3.7.3.  Sound Transit shall establish and provide to the City's  
    Designated Representative a target schedule for submittals as soon as  
    such schedule is available.  
  
    3.7.4.  Sound Transit shall notify the City's Designated  
    Representative fifteen (15) Working Days prior to anticipated plan  
    submittal dates to ensure that City staff can be reallocated to be  
    dedicated to the expeditious review of Sound Transit documents.  The  
    City Departments shall be notified by the Designated Representative  
    of the anticipated plan submittal dates.  
  
    3.7.5.  Sound Transit shall provide the City with a complete  
    submittal for the work to be done in each construction contract  
    awarded by Sound Transit.  If Sound Transit determines that it cannot  
    or is unlikely to meet its anticipated submittal dates, it shall  
    deliver to the City's Designated Representative Sound Transit's  
    revised submittal schedule as soon as possible after any delay is  
    known or suspected.  
  
    3.8.  For City performed work:  
  
    The following submittal requirements shall apply to design work that  
    the City performs for the Project:  
  
    3.8.1.  City Light shall develop design plans and specifications for  
    the relocation of its facilities to meet Sound Transit's construction  
    schedule.  
  
    3.8.2.  The City shall establish and provide to Sound Transit's  
    Designated Representative a target schedule for submittals of City  
    performed designs in conformance with Sound Transit's Project  
    schedule.  
  
    3.8.3.   The City shall notify Sound Transit's Designated  
    Representative fifteen (15) Working Days prior to anticipated plan  
    submittal dates to ensure that Sound Transit can plan and coordinate  
    any required interfaces of said documents into the overall contract  
    package for construction.  
  
    3.8.4.  If the City determines that it cannot or is unlikely to meet  
    its anticipated submittal dates, it shall deliver to Sound Transit's  
    Designated Representative the City's revised submittal schedule as  
    soon as possible after any delay is known or suspected.  
  
    3.9.   Immediate Notice of Incomplete or Inadequate Design Submittals  
  
    Each party recognizes that the incompleteness or insufficiency of any  
    submittal may result in additional time and require additional  
    expenditures beyond the budgeted amounts for this Project.  To avoid  
    incomplete submittals the Parties agree to the following procedures:  
  
    3.9.1.  The City's Designated Representative or other official  
    designated by the City shall notify Sound Transit immediately if any  
    plan submittal is incomplete or provides insufficient detail for City  
    review. City reviewers will describe the deficiencies in writing in  
    sufficient detail to enable corrections to be made by Sound Transit  
    in a timely and cost effective manner.  
  
    3.9.2.  Sound Transit's Designated Representative or other official  
    designated by Sound Transit shall notify the City immediately if any  
    plan submittal by the City is incomplete or provides insufficient  
    detail for Sound Transit's incorporation of the plan submittal into  
    its contract documents. Any notice provided pursuant to this section  
    shall be in writing and describe in detail the deficiency or  
    insufficiency.  
  
    3.10.  City Review Schedule.  
  
    3.10.1.  City review shall begin with receipt of each complete  
    submittal from Sound Transit. The City shall have thirty-five (35)  
    Working Days to review the 30%-, 60%-, and 90%-Complete Submittals.  
    If more than one plan package is submitted during the same review  
    period, the City shall have forty-five (45) Working Days to review  
    the materials and Sound Transit shall prioritize these multiple plan  
    packages according to importance to Sound Transit's schedule.  
  
    3.10.2.  If the City's review of any document is a critical path  
    activity on Sound Transit's design schedule, Sound Transit may  
    request that the City complete such review in less time than allowed  
    above. In such cases, Sound Transit shall identify the critical  
    submittal as far in advance as possible, and notify the City of the  
    need for an expedited review. The City's Designated Representative  
    shall allocate sufficient resources to accomplish the review within a  
    mutually agreed upon time period.  
  
    3.10.3.  The City shall return significant comments to Sound Transit  
    for any submittal as soon as they are available, and to the greatest  
    extent possible, will accomplish reviews in fewer working days than  
    provided for in this Fourth Supplement.  
  
    3.11.  Resolution of Inconsistencies and Consolidation of City  
    Responses to Design Submittals.  
  
    3.11.1.  The City's Designated Representative, or other official  
    designated by the City, shall resolve any inconsistencies among  
    review comments by City departments and offices regarding the  
    Project's design submittals prior to the review comments being  
    consolidated and transmitted, in writing, to Sound Transit.  
  
    3.11.2.  The City recognizes that inconsistent review comments  
    usually cause delay, result in added staff time for review, and may  
    result in unnecessary change orders or additional costs to the  
    Project. The City intends to provide consistent review comments.  If  
    inconsistent comments are discovered, the City will resolve the  
    inconsistencies immediately upon written notice from Sound Transit.  
    The City will promptly take corrective action to avoid any added  
    costs to Sound Transit as a result of such inconsistencies and avoid  
    providing similar inconsistent comments on future reviews.  
  
    3.12.  Sound Transit Response to City Review Comments and Resolution  
    of Issues  
  
    3.12.1.  The City will submit formal written comments consolidated by  
    Seattle Transportation to Sound Transit for each of the 30%-, 60%-,  
    90%-Complete Submittals within the timeframe specified in Section  
    3.10.  Sound Transit must address and respond to every written  
    comment submitted by the City. Depending on the number and magnitude  
    of comments by the City on the 90%-Complete Submittal, Sound Transit  
    shall work with City staff to resolve all issues through, among other  
    means, conducting one-on-one meetings, making additional plan sheet  
    revisions and obtaining approval by concurrence memos or meeting  
    minutes, conducting a key stakeholder group plan review session, or  
    advancing the issue to the next level of administration to resolve  
    the issues in a timely manner.   Seattle Transportation shall notify  
    Sound Transit in writing when all outstanding design issues have been  
    resolved based on the 90% - Complete Submittal comments.  Both the  
    City and Sound Transit shall work collaboratively to get issues  
    resolved in a timely manner prior to Sound Transit delivering the  
    100%-Complete Submittal to the City for possible issuance of the  
    Project Construction Permit by Seattle Transportation under the  
    Agreement Between  the City of Seattle and Sound Transit for Grant of  
    Non-Exclusive Use of a Light Rail Transit Way as Related to the  
    Central Link Light Rail Transit Project (authorized by Ordinance  
    119975).  
  
    3.12.2.  Sound Transit must submit a one-week advance notice prior to  
    submitting the final 100% - Complete Submittal to Seattle  
    Transportation.  Sound Transit will submit six - 1/2 size plan sets  
    for final approval.  Seattle Transportation will coordinate a final  
    check of the submittal and will provide written concurrence if the  
    100% - Complete Submittal has adequately addressed the City comments  
    within 10 Working Days of receiving the six plan sets.  When written  
    notice of acceptance is given to Sound Transit, Seattle  
    Transportation will issue the Project Construction Permit within 10  
    Working Days with applicable permit conditions.  The Project  
    Construction Permit cost is based on time and materials, which are  
    reimbursed through this agreement and a final processing/filing fee  
    of $68.00 for each construction contract.  
  
    3.13.  DCLU Review and Issuance of Permits  
  
    The City and Sound Transit shall have developed and implemented a  
    fast track permit process for DCLU construction and land use  
    approvals. Permit applications to DCLU shall be handled pursuant to  
    the expedited permitting process established by DCLU for handling  
    Sound Transit permit applications.  
  
    4.0  PROJECT DESIGN TO MINIMIZE IMPACTS  
  
    Certain principles shall be applied by Sound Transit to the greatest  
    extent practicable to achieve certain goals of the City regarding  
    maintenance and operation of the facilities constructed by Sound  
    Transit.  These principles are discussed in the following  
    subsections.  
  
    4.1.   Minimize Impact on City Maintenance and Operation Costs  
  
    The Project shall be designed to the greatest extent practical to  
    minimize any increase in City maintenance and operation costs  
    directly caused by the Project. Prior to the issuance of construction  
    permits, Sound Transit and the City shall develop formal agreements,  
    in accordance with overall policy direction established by the Sound  
    Transit Board and the City, to clearly delineate ongoing  
    responsibility for maintenance and operation issues that are likely  
    to be experienced by the City as a direct result of the Project or  
    operation of the resulting light rail system. Such issues and costs  
    include but are not limited to the reconstruction or realignment of  
    any street, sidewalk, bikeway or utility facility or system; the re-  
    timing or other modifications of existing traffic signals; and the  
    installation of new traffic signal, signage, lane markings, street  
    lighting, sidewalk lighting, or pathway lighting within the  
    construction limits of the Project.  
  
    4.2.  Project Design to Minimize Travel and Access Disruptions  
  
    The Project shall be designed to the greatest extent practical to  
    minimize disruptions to City businesses and residents during  
    construction. To achieve that result, Sound Transit and the City  
    shall work cooperatively with representatives of businesses and  
    neighborhoods affected by the Project. The Project, for the entire  
    light rail route within the City, shall also be designed to ensure  
    that:  
  
    4.2.1.  The number of streets in contiguous blocks that are closed or  
    permitted to have severely restricted vehicular or pedestrian traffic  
    during the Project's construction phase are minimized, either by  
    construction being undertaken at varying times of day, in geographic  
    stages, or through other means;  
  
    4.2.2.  Emergency vehicle, utility maintenance vehicle and fire  
    protection vehicle access to every business and residence adjacent to  
    the Project construction area, and pedestrian access to each such  
    residence at all times and to each such business during its normal  
    business hours, are preserved;  
  
    4.2.3.  Vehicular access for types of vehicles other than those  
    identified in Subsection 4.2.2  to every residence adjacent to the  
    Project construction area is preserved except when construction  
    requirements necessitate the complete blockage thereof; and  
  
    4.2.4.  Reasonable prior notice is provided to directly affected  
    property owners, business tenants and neighborhood residents of any  
    loss or change of access to or from their respective properties,  
    tenancies and residences, indicating the expected duration of such  
    loss or change, and alternatives that are available to those affected  
    by such loss or change.  
  
    5.0  REIMBURSEMENTS  
  
    5.1.  Sound Transit's Maximum Reimbursement Obligation  
  
    Sound Transit's maximum funding obligation under this Fourth  
    Supplement for the reimbursable services described in Exhibit 2 shall  
    be $2,935,977 (which includes the amount of $332,842 remaining from  
    the First Supplement budgeted for contingency purposes under this  
    Agreement).  Sound Transit shall not be obligated to reimburse any  
    expenditure in excess of the maximum amount stated in this section,  
    unless authorization is received from its Board of Directors and upon  
    the execution of new supplement or an amendment of this Fourth  
    Supplement upon such terms and conditions as are approved by the  
    Board.  Should estimated costs at any time, for any reason, exceed  
    the amount covered by this Fourth Supplement, the City shall notify  
    Sound Transit without delay.  
  
    5.2.  Budget  
  
    Sound Transit shall reimburse the City for services delivered and  
    work performed under the scope of work of this Fourth Supplement. The  
    amount set forth above and in the detailed budget in Exhibit 3, which  
    is attached to this Fourth Supplement and incorporated herein by  
    reference, reflects the parties' best estimates of the amounts that  
    may be required to accomplish the reimbursable tasks under this  
    Fourth Supplement.  Sound Transit and the City recognize that the  
    cost of delivering such services and performing such work have been  
    estimated based on assumptions stated in Exhibit 2 and information  
    from each party, and the parties recognize that the reallocation of  
    effort based on actual needs may be necessary should Sound Transit  
    change planned activities.  The City shall endeavor to manage the  
    expenditures of departments and offices engaged in work under this  
    Fourth Supplement so that the maximum obligation of Sound Transit is  
    not exceeded.  
  
    5.3.   Reimbursement of City Costs.  
  
    5.3.1.  Principles for Determining Eligible Reimbursable Costs.  
  
    The following principles shall be applied to determine what costs are  
    reimbursable by Sound Transit.  
  
    *  The costs are directly related to the Project and must be  
    essential to meeting Project objectives and schedule.  
  
    *  Tasks must clearly add "essential value" to the Project.  
  
    *  Tasks and the deliverable or product must be clearly described in  
    writing.  
  
    *  The approach and system used to complete the task should be as  
    efficient and cost-effective as possible (even if it means doing  
    things differently).  
  
    *  Tasks indirectly related to implementing the Link light rail  
    Project may be encouraged/supported by Sound Transit, but will not be  
    funded by Sound Transit.  
  
    *  Tasks will not duplicate an activity already programmed or covered  
    by Sound Transit, another City department, a third party or  
    consultant where possible.  
  
    *  Reimbursement will not be made for activities that are normally  
    performed by the City in conducting business with other entities in  
    connection with public projects, such as provision of information  
    and/or documents, review of Environmental Impact Statements, that the  
    City would normally perform   without charge.  
  
    5.4.  Reallocation of Unexpended Funds  
  
    5.4.1.  Funds not expended during the term of the First Supplement  
    are hereby allocated to a contingency category in the budget of this  
    Fourth Supplement to cover the costs of work resulting from  
    unforeseen circumstances or the cost of additional work requested by  
    Sound Transit for the Project.  Reimbursement from this category  
    shall be made upon prior written approval by Sound Transit's  
    Designated Representative and pursuant to the reimbursement  
    provisions of this Fourth Supplement.  
  
    5.4.2.  Funds not expended by Sound Transit during the period of this  
    Fourth Supplement may be reallocated by Sound Transit to additional  
    Central Link Light Rail Project activities in future supplements.  
  
    5.5.  Approval of Excess Expenditures  
  
    Sound Transit and the City agree to the following rules for increases  
    in expenditures:  
  
    A.  The City may expend up to the estimated cost of each budget  
    category as shown in Exhibit 3.  
  
    B.  As a condition of payment of any costs in excess of any of the  
    budget categories provided in Exhibit 3, written approval shall be  
    requested by the City in a timely fashion, and approval or  
    disapproval shall be provided by Sound Transit in writing.   Written  
    approval must be granted before the excess costs are incurred.  
  
    C.  If unforeseen circumstances cause the projected total cost to  
    exceed the total cost of any item or category in the budget  
    categories, the City will take all prudent steps to minimize costs  
    and notify Sound Transit as soon as possible.  
  
    D.  Upon receipt of notice from the City regarding unanticipated  
    costs or cost increases, Sound Transit shall promptly provide a  
    written response, which may  
  
          (1) approve or reject the proposed increased expenditure, (2)  
    re-adjust the scope of work, or (3) authorize the use of contingency  
    amounts budgeted for this Fourth Supplement.  Any expenditures that  
    exceed the maximum amount authorized for this Fourth Supplement shall  
    require further authorization by Sound Transit's Board of Directors.  
  
    5.6.  Invoicing by City  
  
    The City will invoice Sound Transit on a quarterly basis based on  
    actual expenditures. Within thirty (30) calendar days after Sound  
    Transit's receipt of any complete and accurate City invoice, Sound  
    Transit shall remit the reimbursement for the amount of valid  
    expenditures.  
  
    5.7.    Reimbursement by Sound Transit  
  
    Quarterly reimbursements for eligible expenditures under this Fourth  
    Supplement shall be made upon the satisfactory completion of the  
    work.  The City shall initiate the process for reimbursement of its  
    expenditures by preparing, reviewing and submitting requests for  
    reimbursement to Sound Transit in accordance with the procedures in  
    this Subsection and any other applicable regulations provided to the  
    City's Designated Representative.  Sound Transit shall not transfer  
    nor be obligated to transfer any funds in advance of its approval of  
    a request for reimbursement of completed work.  
  
    All reimbursements shall be made under the following procedures:  
  
    5.7.1.  Reimbursement of the eligible costs shall be made upon  
    approval by Sound Transit.  All work submitted shall be reasonably  
    certified as acceptable by Sound Transit before final payment.  
  
    5.7.2.  To be entitled to reimbursement for the satisfactory  
    performance of the activities identified in this Agreement, the City  
    must provide documentation of all expenses eligible for reimbursement  
    to Sound Transit as required by this Fourth Supplement or by the  
    applicable federal requirements.  Sound Transit reserves the right to  
    withhold payments pending timely delivery and proper completion of  
    the reports or documents as may be required under this Fourth  
    Supplement.  
  
    5.7.3.  The City shall supply to Sound Transit an invoice of costs  
    incurred for the period and progress reports for each department  
    including departmental costs in total and by category and a  
    description of work performed.  
  
    5.7.4.  Invoices shall bear the name and address of the City's  
    Designated Representative, and reference this Fourth Supplement.  
    Invoices must be signed by an authorized representative of the City  
    who shall verify that the invoice is accurate, the services have been  
    purchased or the work has been performed, and that the costs shown  
    have been reasonably incurred in accordance with this Fourth  
    Supplement.  Invoices shall be properly completed and accompanied  
    with documentation as required by Sound Transit.  
  
    5.8.  Addresses for Invoicing and Reimbursement.  
  
    A.  To secure payment the City shall submit all invoices, required  
    reports, and documentation to the Designated Representative of Sound  
    Transit at the address provided in or pursuant to Section 2.4.  
  
    B.  Reimbursements will be paid directly to the City to the attention  
    of the Designated Representative of the City at the address provided  
    in or pursuant to Section 2.4.  
  
    6.0  ADMINISTRATION  
  
    6.1.  Monitoring and Reporting of Progress  
  
    The City is committed to work efficiently and will closely monitor  
    the time required to complete work products consistent with the scope  
    of work and budget for the Project. The City shall provide clear,  
    accurate and detailed monthly progress reports to Sound Transit.  The  
    City shall work with Sound Transit to further refine its progress  
    reporting, accounting and program management system to ensure useful  
    and descriptive information that complements Sound Transit's Project  
    control system.   The City and Sound Transit shall provide active,  
    ongoing oversight to ensure that Sound Transit funds are expended  
    efficiently, in a manner that adds value to the Project.  
  
    6.2.  Monitoring and Reporting of Costs  
  
    6.2.1.  The City's Designated Representative, or other designated  
    City official, shall coordinate requests for reimbursements by all  
    City departments and offices and will provide cost reports to Sound  
    Transit on a quarterly basis.  In addition, Sound Transit may require  
    other financial documents to verify that the expenditures are related  
    to the Project work funded by this Agreement, including, but not  
    limited to, (1) work statements or payroll records, (2) invoices for  
    materials and supplies, (3) statements from professionals for  
    services rendered,  (4) certifications by the City that materials and  
    services are satisfactorily rendered, and (5) itemized listings of  
    the charges supported by copies of original bills, invoices, expense  
    accounts, and miscellaneous supporting data retained by City.  
  
    6.2.2.  The City shall provide any plans, specifications, accounting  
    records or other documents needed to satisfy requests from federal  
    funding agencies for information to comply with Sound Transit's  
    funding requirements.  The City shall inspect all work performed  
    under this Agreement and ensure that payments requested for  
    reimbursement are eligible under this Agreement.  
  
    6.3.  Reconciliation  
  
    Both parties agree to monitor and reconcile the actual versus  
    estimated effort on a quarterly basis. Parties will negotiate  
    additional funding or a reduction in services relating to the Project  
    to the extent that such work cannot be performed within the estimate  
    of compensation and expense reimbursement due for the services  
    delivered and work performed. Sound Transit will rely on information  
    contained in the City's progress reports to identify changes in the  
    work as reported on by the City in order to have the opportunity to  
    take corrective action or clarify assumed work efforts.  
    Notwithstanding the above, if the permit approval work performed by  
    DCLU (for which payment is to be on an hourly rate in lieu of value-  
    based construction permit fees) exceeds the estimated amount, Sound  
    Transit shall pay the additional charges without further  
    negotiations. DCLU shall report on work performed for each value-  
    based construction permit being reviewed as compared to the estimated  
    amount so that Sound Transit can see trends in costs estimated vs.  
    actual amounts. This shall be done on a construction contract basis.  
  
    6.4.  Availability of Records.  
  
    All project records in support of all costs incurred and actual  
    expenditures kept by the City shall be maintained in accordance with  
    procedures prescribed by the Washington State Auditor's Office and  
    the applicable Federal funding agencies. The records shall be open to  
    inspection by Sound Transit and the Federal government during normal  
    business hours, and shall be retained and made available for such  
    inspection for a period of not less than three years from the final  
    payment of any federal aid funds to the City. Copies of said records  
    shall be furnished to Sound Transit and/or the Federal government  
    upon request.  This requirement shall be included in all subcontracts  
    related to the work entered into by the City to fulfill the terms of  
    this Fourth Supplement.  
  
    6.5.  Audit.  
  
    If an audit is requested by Sound Transit or required by any  
    applicable federal agency requirements, the City agrees to cooperate  
    fully with Sound Transit's auditor, any independent auditor chosen  
    and retained by Sound Transit for auditing expenditures under this  
    Fourth Supplement or previous Supplements, or with any audit required  
    by the federal funding agency, if applicable.  At the time of a  
    federal audit, if required, the City will provide documentation of  
    all costs incurred under this Fourth Supplement or previous  
    supplements.  
  
    6.6.  Third Party Contract Administration  
  
    Each party shall be solely responsible for the administration of and  
    the completion and quality of work performed under any contracts  
    executed by the party.  In no event shall any contract executed by a  
    party be construed as obligating the other party to this Fourth  
    Supplement.  All contracts shall comply with all applicable public  
    works and procurement laws and regulations, including, but not  
    limited to, bonding, prevailing wage, nondiscrimination, retainage,  
    insurance, and workers compensation requirements.  
  
    7.0  DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS  
  
    The parties remain committed to resolving issues cooperatively,  
    expeditiously, and at the lowest possible staff level. However, as  
    provided for in the April 20, 1998 MOA, the following is the agreed  
    upon process for dispute resolution:  
  
    7.1.  General  
  
    The Designated Representatives will use their best efforts to resolve  
    disputes and issues arising out of or related to the tasks covered by  
    this Fourth Supplement. The Designated Representatives will  
    communicate regularly to discuss the status of the tasks to be  
    performed and to resolve any issues or disputes related to the  
    successful performance of this Fourth Supplement. The Designated  
    Representatives will cooperate in providing staff support to  
    facilitate the performance of this Fourth Supplement and the  
    resolution of any issues or disputes arising during the term of this  
    Fourth Supplement.  
  
    7.2.  Notice of Problem or Dispute and Meeting of Designated  
    Representatives  
  
    Each Designated Representative will notify the other in writing of  
    any problem or dispute that the Designated Representative believes  
    should be resolved. The Designated Representatives shall meet within  
    three (3) Working Days of receiving the written notice in an attempt  
    to resolve the dispute.  
  
    7.3.  Meeting of Directors  
  
    In the event the Designated Representatives cannot resolve a dispute  
    (and that dispute is not subject to some other formal appeal  
    process), the Sound Transit Executive Director or his/her designee  
    and the Director of Seattle Transportation or his/her designee shall  
    meet within seven (7) Working Days of receiving notice from a  
    Designated Representative and engage in good faith negotiations to  
    resolve the dispute.  
  
    7.4.  Prerequisites to Litigation  
  
    Neither Sound Transit nor the City shall have the right to seek  
    relief under this Fourth Supplement in a court of law until and  
    unless each of the procedural steps specified in Subsections 7.2 and  
    7.3 have been completed.  
  
    8.0  COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL FUNDING REQUIREMENTS.  
  
    8.1.  Compliance.  
  
    The City agrees to comply with applicable federal funding  
    requirements of which it is specifically informed, in connection with  
    its receipt of funds from Sound Transit to perform certain tasks  
    under the MOA and its supplements.  
  
    8.2.  Federal Contract Provisions.  
  
    The work performed by the City's contractors shall comply with  
    federal contract and funding requirements to the extent the City is  
    notified of federal grant requirements and to the extent federal  
    funds are utilized by the City under this Fourth Supplement.  All  
    contracts entered into by the City shall include such provisions as  
    required by the Federal Transit Administration ("FTA") to be included  
    in third-party contracts.  
  
    9.0  EXERCISE OF CITY'S POLICE POWER  
  
    Sound Transit recognizes the right vested in the City pursuant to  
    general law to exercise its police power for the protection of the  
    health, safety, and welfare of its citizens and their properties.  
    Nothing in this Fourth Supplement shall be construed as precluding  
    the City from exercising such power in connection with Sound  
    Transit's light rail system except as specifically provided in this  
    Fourth Supplement, and then, only to the extent this Fourth  
    Supplement expressly precludes such exercise.  
  
    10.0  PRIORITY FOR STATE OF EMERGENCY SITUATIONS  
  
    The time period required for performance of services under this  
    Fourth Supplement, other than due dates for payments for services  
    rendered or work performed by the City, shall be extended to include  
    the length of any delay caused by or resulting from the prohibition  
    or restriction of such action by the State or Federal government, or  
    any fire, earthquake, flood, storm, power failure, major equipment  
    breakdown, war, labor trouble, accident, riot, act of Nature, or  
    other event beyond the reasonable control of the party obligated to  
    perform such services; provided, that the party adversely affected by  
    such condition shall promptly advise the other party, in writing, of  
    the occurrence of an event of force majeure and make a reasonable  
    attempt to satisfy its obligations hereunder notwithstanding the  
    event of force majeure.  
  
    11.0  LEGAL RELATIONS  
  
    11.1.  Indemnification.  
  
    To the extent permitted by law, each party to this Agreement shall  
    protect, defend, indemnify, and save harmless the other party, and  
    its officers, officials, employees, and agents, while acting within  
    the scope of their employment, from any and all costs, claims,  
    demands, judgments, damages, or liability of any kind including  
    injuries to persons or damages to property, which arise out of, or in  
    any way result from, or are connected to, or are due to any negligent  
    acts or omissions of the indemnifying party.  No party shall be  
    required to indemnify, defend, or save harmless the other party if  
    the claim, suit, or action for injuries, death, or damages is caused  
    by the sole negligence of the party seeking indemnification.  Where  
    such claims, suits, or actions result from concurrent negligence of  
    the parties, the indemnity provisions provided herein shall be valid  
    and enforceable only to the extent of the party's own negligence.  
    Each party agrees that its obligations under this indemnification  
    section extend to any claim, demand, and/or cause of action brought  
    by, or on behalf of, any of its employees or agents.  For this  
    purpose, each party, by mutual negotiation, hereby waives, with  
    respect to the other party only, any immunity that would otherwise be  
    available against such claims under the industrial insurance  
    provisions of Title 51 RCW.   In the event of any claims, demands,  
    actions and lawsuits, the indemnifying party upon prompt notice from  
    the other party shall assume all costs of defense thereof, including  
    legal fees incurred by the other party, and of all resulting  
    judgments that may be obtained against the other party.   In the  
    event that any party incurs attorney fees, costs or other legal  
    expenses to enforce the provisions of this section, all such fees,  
    costs and expenses shall be recoverable by the prevailing party. This  
    indemnification shall survive the expiration or earlier termination  
    of this Agreement.  
  
    11.2.  Venue  
  
    In the event that any party deems it necessary to institute legal  
    action or proceedings to enforce any right or obligation under this  
    Fourth Supplement, the parties hereto agree that any such action or  
    proceedings shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction  
    situated in Seattle, King County, Washington.  
  
    11.3.  Effective Date.  
  
    This Fourth Supplement shall be effective as of April 1, 2002.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has executed this  
    Fourth Supplement by having its authorized representative affix  
    his/her name in the appropriate space below:  
  
    CENTRAL PUGET SOUND       THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY  
  
    (SOUND TRANSIT)  
  
    (Signature)            (Signature)  
  
    Executive Director          Director of Seattle Transportation  
  
    Date:             Date:  
  
    Approved as to form:        Authorized by Ordinance  
  
    By:  
  
    Sound Transit Legal Counsel  
  
    Authorized by Motion M2002-41  
  
    Attachments:      Exhibit 1 Project Schedule  
  
    Exhibit 2 Scope of Work  
  
    Exhibit 3 Budget  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
            ) ss.       (Acknowledgment for The City of Seattle)  
  
    COUNTY OF KING     )  
  
    On this                   day of                              , 2002,  
    before me, personally appeared Grace Crunican, to me known to be the  
    Director of Seattle Transportation of The City of Seattle, who  
    executed the foregoing agreement, and acknowledged the same to be the  
    free and voluntary act and deed of The City of Seattle for the uses  
    and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was  
    authorized to execute said agreement.  
  
    GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year written above  
    in this certificate.  
  
    (Signature)              (Printed or typed name of Notary Public)  
  
    Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at  
    .  
  
    My appointment expires                                  .  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
            ) ss.       (Acknowledgment for Sound Transit)  
  
    COUNTY OF KING     )  
  
    On this                   day of                              , 2002,  
    before me, personally appeared Joni Earl, to me known to be the  
    Executive Director of the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit  
    Authority, who executed the foregoing agreement, and acknowledged the  
    same to be the free and voluntary act and deed of such entity for the  
    uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was  
    authorized to execute said agreement.  
  
    GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year written above  
    in this certificate.  
  
    (Signature)              (Printed or typed name of Notary Public)  
  
    Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at  
    .  
  
    My appointment expires                                  .  
  
    Attachments:      Exhibit 1 Project Schedule  
  
    Exhibit 2 Scope of Work  
  
    Exhibit 3 Budget  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
            ) ss.       (Acknowledgment for The City of Seattle)  
  
    COUNTY OF KING     )  
  
    On this                   day of                              , 2002,  
    before me, personally appeared Grace Crunican, to me known to be the  
    Director of Seattle Transportation of The City of Seattle, who  
    executed the foregoing agreement, and acknowledged the same to be the  
    free and voluntary act and deed of The City of Seattle for the uses  
    and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was  
    authorized to execute said agreement.  
  
    GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year written above  
    in this certificate.  
  
    (Signature)              (Printed or typed name of Notary Public)  
  
    Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at  
    .  
  
    My appointment expires                                  .  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
            ) ss.       (Acknowledgment for Sound Transit)  
  
    COUNTY OF KING     )  
  
    On this                   day of                              , 2002,  
    before me, personally appeared Joni Earl, to me known to be the  
    Executive Director of the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit  
    Authority, who executed the foregoing agreement, and acknowledged the  
    same to be the free and voluntary act and deed of such entity for the  
    uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was  
    authorized to execute said agreement.  
  
    GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year written above  
    in this certificate.  
  
    (Signature)              (Printed or typed name of Notary Public)  
  
    Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at  
    .  
  
    My appointment expires                                  .  
  
    25  
  
    Fourth Supplement to April 20, 1998 MOA Between Sound Transit and City  
    of Seattle - 1  
  
    Exhibit 2  
  
    SCOPE OF WORK  
  
    FOURTH SUPPLEMENT  
  
    To the April 20, 1998 MOA for Intergovernmental Cooperation between  
    Sound Transit and The City of Seattle for the Central Link Light Rail  
    Project  
  
    March 15, 2002  
  
    Introduction  
  
    This scope of work describes City tasks and deliverables necessary to  
    facilitate final design and implementation of Sound Transit's Project  
    during the time period of April through December 2002. Under this  
    Fourth Supplement, the City agrees to provide expedited design review,  
    construction assistance, design and construction services to meet the  
    Project schedule summarized in Exhibit 1, the major milestones  
    summarized in Exhibit 2 and under the Deliverables for each City  
    department listed in this Exhibit 2.  
  
    Organization.  The scope is organized around the three major areas of  
    Public Works, Public Safety, and Business and Community Assistance and  
    Program Management.  The first sections address activities for the  
    initial Link light rail line from Convention Place to South 154th  
    bordering the cities of Tukwila and SeaTac.  The last page lists  
    activities for North Link.  
  
    Budget Estimate Assumptions.  City departments and offices have used  
    the following assumptions in estimating the effort required to provide  
    the services requested by Sound Transit and the costs to be incurred  
    by the City and reimbursed by Sound Transit under this Fourth  
    Supplement.  
  
    a) Unless otherwise stated, these estimates are for work to be  
    performed in direct support of the Project.  
  
    b)  
  
    c) Unless otherwise stated, these estimates are for work within the  
    City's geographic limits. Sound Transit shall endeavor to notify  
    Seattle Public Utilities and City Light of any activity relating to or  
    affecting any City facility or service south of the City's southern  
    legal boundary.  
  
    d)  
  
    e) The City's estimates are based on the parties adhering to the  
    definitions of 30%-, 60%-, and 90%-Complete Submittal as outlined in  
    the Fourth Supplement.  
  
    f)  
  
    PUBLIC WORKS  
  
    Public Works services will be provided by City departments including  
    Seattle City Light, Seattle Public Utilities, Parks & Recreation  
    Department, Seattle Transportation, and Department of Design,  
    Construction, and Land Use.  
  
    Seattle City Light ("City Light")  
  
    Scope of Work:  
  
    City Light will provide the following primary support services:  
    planning and design for City Light relocations, design support for  
    Link systems requirements, and construction of specific City Light  
    facilities as a result of Link Project impacts.  City Light will  
    manage the planning and design of electrical transmission and  
    distribution system relocations along the Link light rail alignment;  
    design temporary and permanent electric service connections for Sound  
    Transit facilities; provide expedited plan reviews and construction  
    assistance; and construct capital projects as described below.  
  
    Assumptions:  
  
    * To support City Light design, Sound Transit will provide surveyed  
    locations and elevations of existing City Light structures, including  
    profiles of each circuit bottom phase; other structures such as  
    buildings, wire crossings, roads, or light poles in the right-of-way;  
    and topography of the right-of-way showing ground surface elevation.  
    Sound Transit will also provide soils investigation suitable for  
    transmission pole design and copies of Link light rail design  
    documents.  
  
    * Along the Martin Luther King Jr. Way corridor, the scope assumes  
    overhead to overhead electrical utility relocation.  
  
    Tasks and Activities:  
  
    Overall  
  
    * Completion of designs for utility facilities for various segments of  
    the Project.  Provide procurement assistance.  Provide project  
    management through a single point of contact. Coordinate design  
    schedules among City Light's three service centers, power stations,  
    and systems planning office, various City departments, and Sound  
    Transit to efficiently and safely design and construct necessary  
    improvements in support of the Project.  
  
    Segment 500, Downtown Seattle Transit Tunnel  
  
    Design  
  
    * Complete preliminary engineering for revised medium-voltage feeders  
    at International District Station. Coordinate changes to tunnel  
    electrical service equipment with Sound Transit Systems Engineering  
    team.  
  
    600, Demolition Operations & Maintenance Facility  
  
    Construction  
  
    * Disconnect power at buildings to be demolished.  
  
    * Provide Service Representative liaison to notify City Light  
    customers about scheduled outages due to Sound Transit construction.  
  
    Procurement Contract P 650, Steel Poles  
  
    Construction assistance  
  
    * Provide procurement assistance, including review and approval of  
    shop drawings, technical support to resolve bidding and construction  
    questions, and inspection of steel poles, the acceptance or rejection  
    of which shall be in the discretion of City Light.  
  
    Segment 700, E-3 Busway  
  
    Design  
  
    * Complete 100% design of the E-3 Busway transmission 230kV ductbank  
    and vault infrastructure.  
  
    * Complete 100% design of electrical distribution relocation for the  
    Operations & Maintenance Facility.  
  
    * Complete 100% design of the electrical distribution relocation for  
    South Forest Street elevated structure.  
  
    * Coordinate City Light pole bus clearance design along E-3 Busway  
    with Sound Transit and King County Metro.  
  
    * Complete 100% design of permanent electric service connections for  
    Sound Transit low-voltage services. Complete 100% design of temporary  
    services for construction activities in the area of the E-3 Busway,  
    South Forest Street, and Airport Way. Coordinate with Sound Transit  
    Systems Engineering regarding service design.  
  
    Construction assistance  
  
    * Execute easement agreements with Sound Transit for 230kV ductbank  
    and 230kV aerial line adjacent to the E3 Busway and the 230kV aerial  
    line along the north side of South Forest Street between 8th and  
    Airport Way.  
  
    * Assist Sound Transit to establish cost of City Light authorized  
    betterments to aerial 230kV relocation and for 230kVductbank.  
  
    * Provide technical support to Sound Transit to resolve bidding and  
    construction questions for 230kV pole relocation and 230kV ductbank  
    construction.  
  
    Construction  
  
    * Relocate utility poles on South Forest Street.  
  
    * Start construction of the line relocation along Airport Way South in  
    preparation for relocation of 26kV from proposed Operations &  
    Maintenance Facility site.  
  
    * Inspect and identify any corrections needed for approval of Sound  
    Transit Civil Facilities Contractor's installation of steel pole at  
    South Stevens and Airport Way and the two bases at Hines St.  
  
    Segment 710, Beacon Hill Tunnel  
  
    Design  
  
    * Complete 60% design for relocation of City Light facilities crossing  
    I-5 at South Forest Street and additional circuit along South Stevens  
    street and I-5 that serves Beacon Hill.  
  
    * Complete preliminary design of temporary electric service  
    connections for Sound Transit tunnel boring machine (TBM) at West  
    Portal to construct Beacon Hill Tunnel.  
  
    * Complete preliminary design and provide information to Sound Transit  
    design teams for service locations to Beacon Hill Station and new  
    traffic signal controller. Coordinate with Sound Transit Systems  
    Engineering regarding service design.  
  
    Segment 720, 730, 740, Martin Luther King Jr. Way South: Beacon Hill  
    East Portal to Boeing Access Road  
  
    Design  
  
    * Complete -90% design for electrical and pole distribution overhead  
    to overhead permanent relocations along Martin Luther King Jr. Way  
    South and adjacent/intersecting streets.  
  
    * Participate in Urban Design group to coordinate electrical  
    relocation issues.  
  
    * Complete preliminary design for Contract 730 and provide information  
    to Sound Transit design teams for service locations to various light  
    rail facilities including traction power substations, passenger  
    stations, and other amenities, new traffic signal controllers, and  
    streetlights. Coordinate with Sound Transit Systems Engineering  
    regarding service design.  
  
    Segment 755, Boeing Access Road to South 154th  
  
    (Note: Contract 755 is a design contract. The segment is broken into  
    two construction contracts, Contracts 750 and 760.)  
  
    Design  
  
    * Complete 30% design of electrical distribution system relocations  
    along the Project route from Boeing Access Road to South 154th Street  
    in Tukwila.  Specific items include: relocation of overhead to  
    underground distribution line at Boeing Access Road; modification of  
    distribution lines at South 112th Street; and relocation of overhead  
    to overhead distribution line on East Marginal Way.  
  
    * Develop preliminary construction cost estimate for required City  
    Light relocations and identify critical procurement milestones.  
  
    * Complete 90%-Complete Submittal of transmission line at South 112th  
    Street for pole procurement.  
  
    * Complete preliminary design and provide information to Sound Transit  
    design teams for service locations to various light rail facilities  
    including traction power substations, passenger stations, and other  
    amenities, new traffic signal controllers, and streetlights.  
    Coordinate with Sound Transit Systems Engineering regarding service  
    design.  
  
    Deliverables:  
  
    1. Completion of design for the following:  
  
    2.  
  
    - 100% design of E-3 Busway transmission 230kV ductbank and electrical  
    infrastructure for contract 700.  
  
    -  
  
    - 100% design of electrical distribution relocation for Operations &  
    Maintenance Facility onto Airport Way for Contract 700.  
  
    -  
  
    - 100% design of the electrical distribution relocation for South  
    Forest Street elevated structure for Contract 700.  
  
    -  
  
    - 60% design for relocation of City Light facilities crossing I-5 at  
    South Forest Street and additional circuit along South Stevens Street  
    and I-5 for Contract 710.  
  
    -  
  
    - 100% design for electrical and pole distribution overhead-to-  
    overhead permanent relocation along M. L. King Jr. Way South for  
    Contracts 720, 730 and 740.  
  
    -  
  
    - 30% design of electrical transmission and distribution relocations  
    along light rail route from Boeing Access Road to South 154th Street  
    in Tukwila for Contract 755.  
  
    -  
  
    - 90% design of transmission line at South 112th Street for Contract  
    755.  
  
    -  
  
    Per schedule in Exhibit 1  
  
    3. Design review comments identifying electrical service locations for  
    Contracts 500, 700, 710, 730, and 755.  Drawings explaining details of  
    service connections as required.  
  
    4.  
  
    May (700 & 755)  
  
    June (730)  
  
    July (710)  
  
  
    Sept. (500)  
  
    5. Transmittal to Seattle City Council ready-for-approval agreements  
    regarding Sound Transit acquisition of easements for 230kV ductbank  
    and 230kv aerial line adjacent to the E3 Busway and aerial line along  
    South Forest Street.  
  
    6.  
  
    May 2002  
  
    7. Approval of materials for Contract P650, procurement of steel  
    poles, and for inspection of steel pole installation at Stevens and  
    Airport Way for Contract 700.  
  
    8.  
  
    30 days following delivery  
  
    9. Relocation of poles on South Forest Street for Contract 700  
  
    10.  
  
    Aug. 2002  
  
    11. Installation of temporary poles along Airport Way South  (25%  
    completion).  
  
    Dec. 2002  
  
    Seattle Public Utilities ("SPU")  
  
    Scope of Work:  
  
    SPU will provide expedited plan reviews for utility infrastructure  
    including water, sewer and drainage systems and assist Sound Transit  
    and its consultants with specific utility design, construction and  
    service coordination issues.  
  
    Tasks and Activities:  
  
    Overall  
  
    * Provide timely review of Sound Transit design submittals. Provide  
    project management through a single point of contact. Coordinate  
    design review and construction assistance among SPU's Water  
    Operations, Water Quality, Customer Service, and Water Supply  
    divisions, manage resolution of issues, and serve as liaison to Sound  
    Transit.  
  
    Water Operations and Design  
  
    Design review  
  
    * Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500,  
    710, 720, 730, and 740, and 60%-Complete Submittal for Contract 755 as  
    shown in Exhibit 1 for water operations.  
  
    Construction assistance  
  
    * Schedule SPU crews for water decommissioning as needed for Contract  
    600.  
  
    * Review Sound Transit contractor submittals as needed for Contract  
    700 to ensure compliance with City of Seattle Standard Plans and  
    Specifications.  
  
    Drainage and Wastewater Operations and Design  
  
    Design review  
  
    * Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500,  
    710, 720, 730, and 740, and 60%-Complete Submittal for Contract 755  
    (as shown in Exhibit 1) for drainage and wastewater operations design  
    and grading within City right-of-way.  
  
    Construction assistance  
  
    * Review Sound Transit contractor submittals for construction erosion,  
    sediment control, and wastewater disposal plans and other submittals  
    as needed for Contracts 600 and 700 to ensure compliance with City of  
    Seattle Standard Plans and Specifications.  
  
    * Perform additional tasks as needed as result of value engineering  
    sewer study for M. L. King Jr. Way South.  
  
    * Conduct CCTV inspections to identify SPU betterment locations for  
    repairs and rehabilitation of drainage and wastewater facilities.  
    Coordinate identification and negotiation of betterments with Sound  
    Transit.  The City of Seattle will pay the costs of betterments  
    including such additional costs of design and engineering and  
    preliminary coordination with ST.  
  
    Mitigation  
  
    * Provide design support services for Chief Sealth trail, including  
    drainage design, survey work, and development of contract  
    specifications and estimates.  
  
    Real Estate Services  
  
    Construction assistance  
  
    * Develop agreement for Sound Transit permanent aerial and column  
    easement and temporary construction easement on SPU Water Operations  
    property for Contract 710 and acquisition of SPU parcel at Hanford and  
    Eighth Avenue for Contract 810.  
  
    * Provide information to Seattle Transportation about water, sewer and  
    drainage to facilitate street vacation for Project Operations &  
    Maintenance Facility.  This task will be completed at no cost to Sound  
    Transit.  
  
    Schedule and Deliverables:  
  
    1. Timely and complete SPU comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete  
    Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 and 60%-Complete  
    Submittal for Contract 755 (per attached schedule), fully integrated  
    and consistent with comments from other City departments as  
    coordinated by Seattle Transportation.  
  
    2.  
  
    Per schedule in Exhibit 1  
  
    3. Timely and complete SPU comments to Seattle Transportation for  
    approval of Sound Transit contractor submittals for construction  
    erosion, sediment control, and stormwater disposal plans and other  
    submittals as needed for Contracts 600 and 700.  
  
    4.  
  
    30 days following transmittal  
  
    5. Transmittal to Sound Transit special inspection CCTV tape of  
    drainage facilities and summary report.  
  
    6.  
  
    30 days following completion of inspection work  
  
    7. Completion of survey, comments on 60%-Complete Submittal regarding  
    drainage, and plan specifications and estimate for Chief Sealth bike  
    trail.  
  
    8.  
  
    Dec. 2002  
  
    9. Transmittal to Seattle City Council ready-for-approval agreement  
    regarding Sound Transit permanent aerial and column easement and  
    temporary construction easement on SPU Water Operations property for  
    Contract 710 and acquisition of SPU parcel at Hanford and Eighth  
    Avenue for Contract 810.  
  
    10.  
  
    Sept. 2002  
  
    Parks and Recreation  
  
    Scope of Work:  
  
    Parks and Recreation will provide expedited plan review and  
    coordination to identify and resolve Parks related issues associated  
    with final design of the Project in the vicinity of the McClellan  
    Station area, Beacon Hill Tunnel, and Martin Luther King Jr. Way  
    South.  
  
    Tasks and Activities:  
  
    Provide timely review of Sound Transit design submittals.  Work with  
    Sound Transit to coordinate with all Project activities affecting  
    Seattle parks properties, facilities, and programs.  
  
    Design review  
  
    * Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contract 710  
    to evaluate possible effects to Parks property (e.g. the East Duwamish  
    Greenbelt that may be used to construct the west portal of the Beacon  
    Hill Tunnel).  Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contract  
    720 to assess effects to Parks property including portions of the  
    Cheasty Greenbelt above the east portal of the Beacon Hill Tunnel and  
    lower Cheasty Boulevard to be developed in the existing South Winthrop  
    Street right-of-way. Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for  
    Contracts 730 and 740 to evaluate possible issues indirectly affecting  
    Parks properties near M. L. King Jr. Way South light rail corridor.  
  
    *  
  
    Construction assistance  
  
    * Coordinate with property owners regarding Cheasty Boulevard  
    improvements that Sound Transit is designing and constructing for  
    Parks.  
  
    * Develop agreement for permanent subsurface easements for Beacon Hill  
    Tunnel and temporary construction easement for cut-and-cover portion  
    of the Beacon Hill Tunnel East Portal.  
  
    Schedule and Deliverables:  
  
    1. Timely and complete Parks comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete  
    Submittals for relevant portions of Contracts 710, 720, 730, and 740  
    (per attached schedule), fully integrated and consistent with comments  
    from other City departments as coordinated by Seattle Transportation.  
  
    2.  
  
    Per schedule in Exhibit 1  
  
    3. Transmittal to Seattle City Council ready-for-approval agreements  
    with Sound Transit for permanent subsurface easements for Beacon Hill  
    Tunnel and temporary construction easement for cut-and-cover portion  
    of Beacon Hill Tunnel East Portal.  
  
    4.  
  
    Sept. 2002  
  
    5. Resolution of access issues with property owners on Cheasty  
    Boulevard.  
  
    6.  
  
    Sept. 2002  
  
    Seattle Transportation  
  
    Scope of Work:  
  
    Seattle Transportation is responsible for Citywide coordination of  
    Sound Transit design review, construction, and permitting including  
    managing citywide review of contract packages, and providing on-site  
    construction and permit coordination for work within City right-of-way  
    related to Contracts 600 and 700.  
  
    Tasks and Activities:  
  
    Project management  
  
    * Provide project management for Citywide coordination of Sound  
    Transit design, Seattle Transportation permitting, and construction  
    work. Provide single point of contact to Sound Transit for resolution  
    of concurrence letters, Case Management Group, project commitment  
    memo, project construction permit and scope issues; coordinate  
    notification of private utilities about relocation; and provide  
    ongoing support to ensure that the City has done whatever it  
    reasonably can to help Sound Transit become permit-ready.  
  
    * Provide project management and single point of contact for Seattle  
    Transportation's coordination of Sound Transit design, permitting and  
    construction activity.  Facilitate resolution of issues, manage  
    Seattle Transportation staff activity, prepare progress reports,  
    coordinate preparation of department scope and budget proposals and  
    support Sound Transit as otherwise requested.  
  
    Design review & support  
  
    * Provide timely resolution of City issues and full integration of  
    City comments on all Sound Transit design submittals.  
  
    * Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500,  
    710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule) for compliance with  
    City codes.  Review small portion of 60%-Complete Submittal for  
    Contract 755 pertaining to quarter mile section within City right-of-  
    way and truck clearance issues associated with Boeing Access Road (per  
    attached schedule).  
  
    * Coordinate Citywide design review of 60%- and 90%-Complete  
    Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 and 60%-Complete  
    Submittal for Contract 755 (per attached schedule). This includes  
    coordinating pre-submittal reviews, disseminating contract packages to  
    City reviewers, facilitating reviews to meet Sound Transit schedule  
    requirements, collating and tracking all City review comments,  
    identifying and resolving conflicting City comments, and preparing and  
    delivering one set of internally consistent City comments to Sound  
    Transit within timeframes specified in this Supplement.  
  
    * Provide confirmation review of 100%-Complete Submittal for Contracts  
    500 and 810 to check that City comments on 90%-Complete Submittal have  
    been incorporated.  
  
    * Participate in M. L. King Jr. Way Urban Design Task Force meetings  
    to resolve urban design issues and provide letters of concurrence as  
    needed.  
  
    * Prepare for and participate in meetings with Sound Transit staff as  
    requested to resolve design and permitting issues.  Provide necessary  
    follow-up activity for resolution of issues.  Work with Sound Transit  
    to effectively document agreement on resolution of issues.  
  
    * Review and comment on technical memos, reports or plan sheets as  
    requested by Sound Transit.  
  
    * Manage the City design team working on the Chief Sealth Trail Design  
    and coordinate design activity with Sound Transit.  
  
    Construction assistance  
  
    * Finalize project construction permit for Contract 700.  
  
    * Review light rail construction traffic control plans for Contracts  
    600, 700, and 810 to assure compliance with City codes and ordinances.  
  
    * Develop agreement for transfer of certain Sound Transit real  
    property and street improvements along M. L. King Jr. Way South to the  
    City.  
  
    * Staff Case Management Group in conjunction with DCLU and Sound  
    Transit to review site-specific development issues of impacted  
    property owners and expedite responses or permits as needed.  
  
    * Provide construction support as needed for Contracts 600 and 700.  
    Coordinate City review of contractor submittals and resolution of  
    issues as they arise.  
  
    Mitigation  
  
    * Prepare 30%- and 60%-Complete Submittals for a mutually agreed upon  
    portion of the Chief Sealth bike trail serving Rainier Valley to  
    coordinate with Sound Transit light rail design in that vicinity.  
  
    * Coordinate with Sound Transit as they lead negotiations with  
    property owners on the west side of M. L. King Jr. Way South between  
    South Trenton and South Henderson Streets to acquire additional right-  
    of-way needed for the Project.  The City will have lead responsibility  
    for acquisition of right-of-way needed for the bike trail.  The  
    parties may choose to conduct joint appraisals; however, each party  
    will be responsible for their share of the appraisal fee and each  
    party shall be responsible for the proportionate share of the  
    acquisition cost of the property that each needs.  
  
    Schedule and Deliverables:  
  
    1. Timely resolution of City issues as they arise during design phases  
    for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, 740, and 755 and signed letters of  
    concurrence as needed.  
  
    2.  
  
    As required  
  
    3. Timely, fully integrated and consistent City comments on 60%- and  
    90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 and  
    60%-Complete Submittal for Contract 755 (per attached schedule).  
  
    4.  
  
    Per schedule in Exhibit 1;  
  
    35 days, 45 days if more than one plan package  
  
    5. Approval of 100%-Complete Submittal for Contracts 500 and 810.  
  
    6.  
  
    Per schedule in Exhibit 1  
  
    7. Signed letters of concurrence on resolution of urban design issues  
    as needed through participation in M. L. King Jr. Way Urban Design  
    Task Force.  
  
    8.  
  
    As required  
  
    9. Issuance of project construction permit for Contract 700.  
  
    10.  
  
    April 2002  
  
    11. Approval of light rail construction traffic control plans for  
    Contracts 600 and 700.  
  
    12.  
  
    As required during construction  
  
    13. Transmittal to Seattle City Council ready-for-approval agreement  
    for transfer of Sound Transit real property and street improvements  
    along M. L. King Jr. Way South to the City of Seattle.  
  
    14.  
  
    June 2002  
  
    15. Timely resolution of impacted property owner issues and expedited  
    permits as needed through participation in Case Management Group.  
  
    16.  
  
    Ongoing assistance, monthly reports  
  
    17. 30%- and 60%-Complete Submittals for a portion of the Chief Sealth  
    bike trail serving Rainier Valley as mutually agreed upon between  
    Sound Transit and the City.  
  
    18.  
  
    30% Sept 2002 60% Dec. 2002  
  
    19. Timely resolution of City issues as they arise at construction  
    sites for Contracts 600 and 700.  
  
    20.  
  
    Ongoing assistance  
  
    Department of Design, Construction and Land Use ("DCLU")  
  
    Scope of Work:  
  
    DCLU is responsible for conducting plan and design review; issuing  
    land use, building, electrical, and noise-related permits that are  
    critical to construction of the Project; and performing inspections  
    during construction. DCLU will provide coordination services and  
    expedited review to facilitate issuance of permits needed by Sound  
    Transit as well as help impacted businesses obtain permits for  
    relocation or changes at existing locations due to the Project.  
  
    Assumptions:  
  
    Sound Transit will pay the standard permitting fees which will not  
    exceed the hourly rate set in the DCLU Fee Ordinance, except with  
    respect to facilities not in the right-of-way such as the Operations &  
    Maintenance Facility (for which a value-based permit fee shall be  
    charged, based on the square foot values set forth in the most current  
    Building Standards publication or as otherwise noted in the Permitting  
    Manual).  Sound Transit shall pay fees for other types of permits  
    according to the DCLU Fee Ordinance, including but not limited to the  
    following.  The fees for these permits are not a part of the funding  
    described in this agreement.  In all cases, services will be paid for  
    either though DCLU fee ordinance or pursuant to this agreement, but  
    not both.  
  
    - Certain building permits -such as connections from stations to  
    existing buildings, commercial tenants within the stations, and  
    shoring of adjacent existing buildings  
  
    -  
  
    - Electrical permits  
  
    -  
  
    - Land use permits  
  
    -  
  
    - Noise-related permits  
  
    -  
  
    DCLU Staff Assignment  
  
    The parties will work together to develop a concurrency memo covering  
    designated staff assignments in connection with the Project.  This  
    concurrency memo will become part of the Permitting Manual.  
  
    Tasks and Activities:  
  
    Expedited Permit Processing  
  
    DCLU staff responsible for permits and approvals for the Project will  
    work with Sound Transit to identify ways of expediting the permit  
    process for the Project.  Regarding the Master Use Permit processes,  
    at a minimum, DCLU will endeavor to meet the following timeliness  
    goals:  
  
    * Determine whether MUP applications are complete within two weeks of  
    Sound Transit submitting the MUP applications;  
  
    * Notify Sound Transit promptly of the need for changes or additional  
    information, and maintain regular communication with Sound Transit  
    staff, during the permit process; and  
  
    * Issue a MUP decision within four months after the City required  
    public comment period has expired.  
  
    Project management  
  
    * Participate in joint City/Sound Transit committees to coordinate  
    construction efforts, including Fire Life Safety Committee, Utilities  
    and Construction Committee, and Permit Management Work Group.  
  
    Design review  
  
    * Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals with Contracts  
    500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule) for compliance  
    with all applicable current City codes including but not limited to:  
    Uniform Building and Mechanical Codes, Land Use Code, ADA  
    requirements, site drainage, grading, environmental, critical areas,  
    energy codes, and Seattle Design Guidelines for Link Light Rail.  
    Advise Seattle Transportation on structural and geotechnical issues as  
    needed.  
  
    * Staff Seattle Light Rail Review Panel (LRRP) to provide timely and  
    streamlined review of architecture and urban design drawings,  
    including landscape architecture and art for 60%- and 90%-Complete  
    Submittals with Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached  
    schedule).  Provide consolidated comments on behalf of three City  
    commissions: Design, Planning, and Arts.  
  
    * Serve on the M. L. King Jr. Way Urban Design Task Force, participate  
    in meetings, help facilitate creative and cost effective resolution of  
    urban design issues, and provide letters of concurrence as needed.  
  
    Construction assistance  
  
    * Work with Sound Transit to develop a Permitting Manual, to be  
    jointly approved by the Sound Transit and City designated  
    representatives, to help Sound Transit and City staff clarify and  
    apply the permit process, identify which permits are necessary under  
    various circumstances, and describe what is required for permit  
    application submittals.  Hold training session for Sound Transit line  
    segment managers and City staff to explain permit process and  
    procedures and review contents of Permitting Manual.  
  
    * Provide coordinated review of all Sound Transit land use permit  
    applications. Facilitate resolution of permit issues with other City  
    departments as needed. Assist Sound Transit with permit submittals to  
    ensure applications are complete and issuance of permits is expedited.  
  
    * Provide business and community assistance through the Case  
    Management Group and respond to impacted property owners who directly  
    contact the DCLU office.  Staff Case Management Group in conjunction  
    with Seattle Transportation and Sound Transit to review site-specific  
    development issues of impacted property owners.  Provide expedited  
    responses and permits as needed for impacted property owners staying  
    and those relocating within the neighborhood or to another site within  
    the City.  
  
    * Facilitate resolution of noise issues or other construction related  
    issues that may arise with start of construction on Contracts 600 and  
    710.  
  
    Schedule and Deliverables:  
  
    1. Timely and complete DCLU comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete  
    Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached  
    schedule), fully integrated and consistent with comments from other  
    City departments as coordinated by Seattle Transportation.  
  
    2.  
  
    Per schedule in Exhibit 1  
  
    3. Timely and responsive LRRP comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete  
    Submittal for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 to be integrated  
    with City comments when possible, or included as separate comments  
    with Citywide response. Meeting notes and actions from LRRP meetings  
    and special reports as needed.  
  
    4.  
  
    Per schedule in Exhibit 1, Meeting notes 30 days following LLRP  
    meetings  
  
    5. Signed letters of concurrence on resolution of urban design issues  
    as needed through participation in M. L. King Jr. Way Urban Design  
    Task Force.  
  
    As required  
  
    6. Development of Permitting Manual and training session held for  
    Sound Transit line segment managers and City staff to explain permit  
    process and procedures.  
  
    7.  
  
    April 2002  
  
    8. Timely publication of decisions for the following estimated  
    permits, pending completion of submittals from Sound Transit:  
  
    9.  
  
    - 7 master use permits and 2 building demolition permits for Contract  
    600.  (Sound Transit's Notice to Proceed is scheduled to be issued in  
    May 2002.)  
  
    -  
  
    - 1 to 2 master use permits and 1 project construction permit for  
    Contract 700.  (Sound Transit's Notice to Proceed is scheduled to be  
    issued in November 2002.)  
  
    -  
  
    - Substantial progress toward 1 master use permit, 1 building permit,  
    and 1 electrical permit for Contract 810 consistent with schedule in  
    Exhibit 1.   (Sound Transit's Notice to Proceed is scheduled to be  
    issued in March 2003.)  
  
    -  
  
    In time for:  
  
    Contract 600  
  
    Contract 700  
  
    Contract 810  
  
    10. Timely resolution of issues of persons or entities impacted by the  
    Project and expedited permits as needed through participation in the  
    Case Management Group and responses to persons or entities impacted by  
    the Project who directly contact the DCLU office.  
  
    Ongoing assistance, Monthly reports  
  
    PUBLIC SAFETY  
  
    Public Safety services will be provided by the City's Fire and Police  
    Departments.  
  
    Seattle Fire Department  
  
    Scope of Work:  
  
    The Seattle Fire Department will review Sound Transit plans,  
    participate in Fire Life Safety Committee, and prepare a Beacon Hill  
    Tunnel construction rescue proposal to support the design and  
    construction of a safe Link light rail system that meets Seattle Fire  
    Code requirements.  
  
    Tasks and Activities:  
  
    Design review  
  
    * Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals with Contracts  
    500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule) and 100%-Complete  
    Submittal with Contract 810 for compliance with Seattle Fire Code and  
    related Building Code requirements. Provide written concurrence on  
    design submittals where such concurrence is appropriate.  
  
    Construction assistance  
  
    * Perform technical reviews of fire protection system design and shop  
    drawings with Contracts 700 and 810 for conformance with nationally  
    recognized standards, equipment listings, and sound engineering  
    principles.  
  
    * Complete tunnel construction rescue proposal for Sound Transit  
    consideration for Beacon Hill Tunnel and Station so that it will  
    comply with applicable Washington State and City code requirements.  
  
    * Assist with developing water pressure and hydraulic information,  
    including conducting hydrant flow tests for Contracts 700, 710, 720  
    and 810 as needed and if approval is warranted, approve plans for  
    placement of fire hydrants and stand-pipes.  
  
    * Participate in development of national standards related to fire  
    protection and life safety of light rail through the NFPA 130  
    Technical Committee on Fixed Guideway Transit Systems.  
  
    * Review specialty reports as needed for impacts on fire safety and  
    suppression.  
  
    * Participate on Fire Life Safety Committee and other Sound Transit  
    coordination meetings as needed.  
  
    Schedule and Deliverables:  
  
    1. Timely and complete comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals  
    for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 and 100%-Complete Submittal  
    for Contract 810 (per attached schedule), fully integrated and  
    consistent with comment from other City departments as coordinated by  
    Seattle Transportation.  
  
    2.  
  
    Per schedule in Exhibit 1  
  
    3. Approval of fire protection system design and shop drawings with  
    Contracts 700 and 810 for conformance with nationally recognized  
    standards, equipment listings, and sound engineering principles.  
  
    4.  
  
    As required  
  
    5. Tunnel Construction Rescue proposal for Sound Transit consideration  
    for Beacon Hill Tunnel and Station.  
  
    6.  
  
    June 2002  
  
    7. Approval of plans for placement of fire hydrants and stand-pipes  
    for contracts 710, 720 and 810.  
  
    8.  
  
    May (810), Oct. (710), Nov. (720)  
  
    9. Progress reports about key issues and/or opportunities to influence  
    national standards through participation in NFPA 130 Technical  
    Committee on Fixed Guideway Transit Systems.  
  
    10.  
  
    As part of Monthly reports  
  
    11. Signed letters of concurrence as needed regarding resolution of  
    issues.  
  
    As required  
  
    Seattle Police Department  
  
    Scope of Work:  
  
    The Seattle Police Department will review Sound Transit plans,  
    participate in Fire Life Safety Committee, and advise Sound Transit's  
    development of security plans during construction and for operations.  
    Seattle Police will also provide worksite traffic control at  
    construction intersections.  
  
    Tasks and Activities:  
  
    Design review  
  
    * Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittal for Contracts 500,  
    710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule) for impact upon  
    vehicular and pedestrian traffic flow. Provide written concurrence on  
    design submittal where such concurrence is appropriate.  
  
    Construction assistance  
  
    * Timely Review of Project construction worksite traffic control plans  
    for Contracts 600, 700, and 810 to determine compliance with City  
    codes and ordinances and if such compliance is evident, approve such  
    plans.  
  
    * Participate on Fire Life Safety Committee and other Sound Transit  
    coordination meetings as needed.  
  
    * Assist Sound Transit in planning and preparing for Sound Transit's  
    law enforcement needs with Project construction and future operation  
    of services.  
  
    * Provide police traffic control to assure safety at Airport Way and  
    Lander intersection for construction under Contracts 600 and 700 as  
    needed.  
  
    Schedule and Deliverables:  
  
    1. Timely and complete comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals  
    for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule),  
    fully integrated and consistent with comment from other City  
    departments as coordinated by Seattle Transportation.  
  
    2.  
  
    Per schedule in Exhibit 1  
  
    3. Review, and where appropriate, approval, in conjunction with  
    Seattle Transportation, of Project construction worksite traffic  
    control plans for Contracts 600 and 700.  
  
    4.  
  
    60 days after NTP for contracts  
  
    5. Signed letters of concurrence as needed regarding resolution of  
    issues.  
  
    As required  
  
    6. Provision of police traffic control to assure safety at Airport Way  
    and Lander intersection for construction under Contracts 600 and 700  
    as needed.  
  
    7.  
  
    As required  
  
    BUSINESS AND COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT  
  
    The Strategic Planning Office, Office of Economic Development, and  
    other City administrative units, as needed, shall coordinate closely  
    with Sound Transit to manage Citywide activities to support Project  
    final design and implementation, administer financial and reporting  
    details of this Supplement, and provide business and community  
    assistance.  
  
    Strategic Planning Office (SPO)  
  
    Scope of Work:  
  
    SPO will manage all City efforts conducted under this Supplement,  
    coordinate resolution of Project policy issues, manage monthly report  
    and financing, and provide technical assistance (e.g., traffic  
    modeling) as needed.  
  
    Tasks and Activities:  
  
    * Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500,  
    710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule) for consistency with  
    City adopted station area planning policy.  
  
    * Coordinate with Sound Transit staff to resolve strategic planning  
    issues, such as pedestrian and bicycle improvements and mitigation  
    measures to facilitate final design and implementation of the Project.  
  
    * Manage resolution of policy issues to ensure that the City has done  
    whatever it reasonably can to help Sound Transit become permit-ready.  
    Provide liaison with Mayor's Office to facilitate decision-making and  
    expedite resolution of such policy issues.  
  
    * Track, in coordination with Seattle Transportation, City/Sound  
    Transit mitigation commitments and resolution of issues through  
    Project agreements and letters of concurrence. Provide weekly written  
    status reports to show progress toward issuance of Project  
    construction permits.  
  
    * Manage City budget and administer monthly reporting, quarterly  
    invoicing, and other financial accounting responsibilities for City  
    activities related to this Supplement.  
  
    Schedule and Deliverables:  
  
    1. Timely and complete comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals  
    for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule),  
    fully integrated and consistent with comments from other City  
    departments as coordinated by Seattle Transportation.  
  
    2.  
  
    Per schedule in Exhibit 1  
  
    3. Timely resolution of Project strategic planning and policy issues  
    as needed.  
  
    4.  
  
    As required.  
  
    5. Weekly status reports of progress on mitigation commitments and  
    resolution of Project issues  
  
    6.  
  
    Weekly reports  
  
    7. Timely monthly reports of City reimbursable tasks and quarterly  
    invoices related to this Supplement.  
  
    Monthly reports, Quarterly invoices  
  
    Office of Economic Development ("OED")  
  
    Scope of Work:  
  
    OED will work with Sound Transit to implement a business assistance  
    program that helps those businesses that will be displaced or  
    otherwise impacted by construction of Sound Transit's Project.  The  
    goals of the business assistance program are (i) to aid displaced  
    businesses in successfully relocating within the City of Seattle and  
    (ii) to help impacted (but non-dislocated) businesses in remaining  
    viable during construction.  
  
    Tasks and Activities:  
  
    Overall  
  
    * Work with Sound Transit staff to devise effective strategies for  
    assisting impacted businesses that complement Sound Transit's property  
    acquisition and relocation program and construction impacts mitigation  
    program.  
  
    * Coordinate delivery of OED business assistance services with Sound  
    Transit's acquisition and relocation staff, its construction impacts  
    mitigation staff, DCLU's expedited permitting staff, the Community  
    Development Fund (CDF) staff, and King County Business Relocation Task  
    Force.  
  
    Resources and program development  
  
    * Identify potential non-Sound Transit resources available for  
    impacted businesses. Develop and maintain a manual for businesses  
    describing available resources for funding and technical assistance,  
    including step-by-step instructions for accessing funding, application  
    criteria, contact names, and timing for submission.  
  
    * Plan and execute training session to inform Sound Transit real  
    estate and other project management staff about other funding and  
    technical assistance resources available for impacted businesses.  
  
    * Convene meetings with small business assistance organizations,  
    banks, and CDF staff to share information about impacted businesses,  
    discuss how to maximize the use of City of Seattle, Sound Transit, and  
    community resources for impacted businesses, identify appropriate  
    resources, and coordinate delivery of services.  
  
    Technical assistance for relocated businesses  
  
    * Plan and execute introductory business assistance workshop(s) for  
    impacted businesses, with four to five topical business assistance  
    workshops that build on introductory workshop.  
  
    - The format of the introductory workshop will include an update from  
    Sound Transit staff about the Project, information about the CDF and  
    other non-Sound Transit resources available as described in the  
    Manual, and an overview of what financial details businesses will need  
    to access community resources.  Provide business owners with an  
    opportunity to meet with community resources staff.  
  
    -  
  
    - Topical workshops may include Creating and Maintaining Financial  
    Statements, Business Planning When Relocating, Marketing to Succeed  
    After Relocating, and Successful Loan Application Preparation.  
  
    -  
  
    - The timing of the topical workshop(s) will follow Sound Transit's  
    notification to impacted property owners. One to two introductory  
    workshops will be held in Spring/Summer 2002.  
  
    -  
  
    - OED will organize, promote, and prepare materials for the workshops  
    and coordinate participation of the community resource providers.  
  
    -  
  
    * Provide personalized technical assistance to impacted businesses  
    that contact OED, refer them to the appropriate resources, and follow  
    up requests for information.  
  
    - An estimated 5 businesses on Beacon Hill and 65 businesses in the  
    Rainier Valley will need to relocate  
  
    -  
  
    - An estimated 200 or more businesses in the Rainier Valley may be  
    impacted by construction and may seek assistance for those impacts.  
  
    -  
  
    - One-on-one technical assistance will include help to identify and  
    access appropriate community resources, prepare financial statements,  
    assess eligibility and apply for Community Development Fund products,  
    and develop business plans in light of potential temporary reduced  
    revenue and/or increased operating costs with relocation. Services  
    provided shall be culturally sensitive and individually tailored to  
    address the needs of each impacted business owner.  
  
    -  
  
    - Sound Transit staff will initiate contact with impacted businesses  
    and refer interested businesses to OED.  
  
    -  
  
    * Community Development Fund Technical Assistance  
  
    - Assist businesses to assess eligibility for CDF financial products.  
  
    -  
  
    - Assist businesses to develop and assemble required documentation to  
    apply to the CDF.  This information could include business plan  
    elements, projected financial statements, personal financial  
    statements, personal tax returns, business financial statements,  
    business tax returns, and information regarding current and future  
    leases.  
  
    -  
  
    - Assist businesses with completion of application packet and  
    communication with CDF staff/credit committee.  
  
    -  
  
    - The CDF will reimburse Sound Transit for 1.0 FTE to provide these  
    services.  
  
    -  
  
    Relocation site identification and development  
  
    * In assisting Sound Transit's efforts to help displaced businesses  
    successfully relocate, OED shall:  
  
    - Follow-up Sound Transit initial interviews with businesses to  
    identify business needs and preferences for relocation that will  
    inform developers if opportunity exists.  
  
    -  
  
    - Work with interested businesses to identify business needs and  
    preferences for co-location options.  
  
    -  
  
    - Help interested businesses prepare for discussions with developers  
    by educating them about what information they need and about the  
    process of working with developers.  
  
    -  
  
    - Support Sound Transit's efforts to connect groups of interested  
    businesses such as VABDOSS with developers, as needed.  Sound Transit  
    will take the lead on identifying potential replacement sites and  
    interested developers.  
  
    -  
  
    - Identify appropriate resources to help finance development projects  
    to accommodate groups of relocated businesses.  
  
    -  
  
    - Perform the above services with groups such as the Vietnamese  
    American Business Development of Southeast Seattle (VABDOSS) to  
    identify and help address collective needs of business groups.  
  
    -  
  
    Schedule and Deliverables:  
  
    1. Development and maintenance of a manual for impacted businesses  
    about non-Sound Transit resources for funding and technical  
    assistance.  Information will be user-friendly, easily translated into  
    other languages, and readily integrated into Sound Transit's business  
    relocation resource guide.  
  
    2.  
  
    April 2002, ongoing maintenance  
  
    3. Training session held to inform Sound Transit staff about other  
    funding and technical assistance resources available for impacted  
    businesses.  
  
    4.  
  
    April 2002  
  
    5. Quarterly meetings with small business assistance organizations,  
    banks, CDF staff, and other stakeholders held to identify "best use"  
    of community resources for impacted businesses and improve  
    coordination of services.  
  
    6.  
  
    April, July, Oct. 2002  
  
    7. One to two introductory business assistance workshops held to  
    inform impacted businesses about resources available and provide basic  
    financial statement training.  
  
    8.  
  
    April, June 2002  
  
    9. Four to five topical business assistance workshops held to help  
    impacted businesses with Creating and Maintaining Financial  
    Statements, Business Planning When Relocating, Marketing to Succeed  
    After Relocating, and Successful Loan Application Preparation.  
  
    10.  
  
    To be determined between May - Oct. 2002  
  
    11. Provision of quality one-on-one technical assistance to impacted  
    businesses. Documentation regarding the number of impacted businesses  
    served and monthly reports to Sound Transit.  
  
    12.  
  
    Ongoing assistance, Monthly reports  
  
    13. Documentation of relocation assistance provided, including  
    information gathered from business and VABDOSS interviews about needs  
    and preferences for relocation; notes from meetings and/or materials  
    developed to help interested businesses prepare for discussions with  
    developers; and identification of appropriate resources for financing  
    development projects to accommodate groups of relocated businesses.  
  
    14.  
  
    Ongoing assistance, Monthly reports  
  
    15. Timely resolution of impacted property owner issues as needed  
    through participation in the Case Management Group and responses to  
    impacted property owners who directly contact OED.  
  
    16.  
  
    Ongoing assistance, Monthly reports  
  
    NORTH LINK  
  
    Scope of Work:  
  
    City departments, including City Light, SPU, Parks, Seattle  
    Transportation, DCLU, Police, Fire, as well as the Strategic Planning  
    Office, will provide a technical review of North Link light rail route  
    and station alternatives and respond to requests for information to  
    support development of the North Link Supplemental Environmental  
    Impact Statement (SEIS).  
  
    Assumptions:  
  
    * Activities such as review of Environmental Impact Statements (EIS)  
    and provision of technical information that the City normally performs  
    for and delivers to other government and private entities at no cost  
    will not be reimbursable tasks under this Supplement.  
  
    * Sound Transit will manage a $50,000 fund to reimburse the City for  
    North Link related activities to support the Project.  In order to be  
    reimbursed for North Link tasks and deliverables, City departments  
    will submit requests to the Strategic Planning Office, which will in  
    turn obtain  written pre-authorization from Sound Transit.  
  
    Tasks and Activities:  
  
    * Develop 2015 and 2030 growth factors, using its EMME/2 traffic  
    model, for traffic analysis in the North Link Supplemental  
    Environmental Impact Statement.  Growth factors will be required for  
    all intersections selected by Sound Transit and the City for LOS  
    analysis.  
  
    * Provide a technical review of the North Link light rail route and  
    station alternatives through participation in one half-day session.  
    Produce a summary report that identifies potential City impact  
    concerns and coordination issues with the North Link alternatives  
    under study.  
  
    * Respond to requests for information to support the development of  
    the North Link SEIS and conceptual design of route and station  
    alternatives as requested by Sound Transit.  
  
    Schedule and Deliverables:  
  
    1. Traffic analysis 2015 and 2030 growth factors for the North Link  
    Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement.  
  
    April 2002  
  
    2. Summary report from North Link technical review session.  
  
    3.  
  
    April 2002  
  
    4. Provision of technical support as requested by Sound Transit.  
  
    5.  
  
    As required  
  
    Budget:  
  
    Traffic analysis  
  
    not to exceed $5,000  
  
    Technical review  
  
    not to exceed $10,000  
  
    Other technical support  
  
    not to exceed $35,000  
  
    TOTAL  
  
    $50,000  
  
    23  
  
    Exhibit 2 - Scope of Work, Fourth Supplement to the MOA for  
    Intergovernmental Cooperation between Sound Transit and the City of  
    Seattle for the Central Link Light Rail Project  6  
  
    Exhibit 2 - Scope of Work, Fourth Supplement to the MOA for  
    Intergovernmental Cooperation between Sound Transit and the City of  
    Seattle for the Central Link Light Rail Project  2  
