* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114565**   
**Ordinance Number: 121161**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and ordering the payment thereof.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 19, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Drago, Licata)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 27, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 23, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 19, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** FINANCE  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and  
    ordering the payment thereof.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    SECTION 1.  Payment of the sum of Eight Million, One Hundred Ninety  
    Three Thousand, Four Hundred Thirteen and 75/100 dollars  
    ($8,193,413.75) on Summit mechanical checks numbered, 4000676973-  
    4000679478, plus manual or cancellation issues for claims, and  
    Electronic Financial Transactions (EFT) in the amount of Eight  
    Million, Forty One Thousand, Six Hundred One and 64/100 dollars  
    ($8,041,601.64) are presented for ratification by the City Council per  
    Chapter 42.23 RCA.  
  
    SECTION 2.  Payment of the sum of Twenty Four Million, Three Hundred  
    Seventy Four Thousand, Nine Hundred Fourteen and 90/100 dollars  
    ($24,374,914.90) on City General Salary Fund mechanical checks  
    numbered 50774474 - 50776655 plus manual checks, agencies checks, and  
    direct deposits numbered 200001 - 209418 representing Gross Payrolls  
    for payroll ending date May 6, 2003 as detailed in the Payroll Summary  
    Report for claims against the City which were audited by the Auditing  
    Committee and reported by said committee to the City Council on May  
    19, 2003 consistent with appropriations heretofore made for such  
    purpose from the appropriate Funds, is hereby approved.  
  
    SECTION 3.  That any act consistent with the authority and prior to  
    the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    SECTION 4.  This ordinance, being an ordinance required for the  
    payment of salaries or current expenses, shall take effect and be in  
    force immediately upon its approval, if approved by the Mayor;  
    otherwise it shall take effect at the time it shall become a law under  
    the provisions of the City Charter.  
  
    Passed by the City Council on the 19th day of May. 2003 and signed by  
    me in open session in authentication of its passage this may. 19,  
    2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      President ___________ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    L shields  
  
    Audited Claims Ordinance  
  
    May 15, 2003  
