* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114573**   
**Ordinance Number: 121165**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and ordering the payment thereof.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 27, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: Wills)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 4, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 4, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 27, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** FINANCE  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and  
    ordering the  
  
    payment thereof.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    SECTION 1.  Payment of the sum of Eleven Million, Three Hundred  
    Sixteen Thousand, Seven Hundred Forty Nine and 87/100 dollars  
    ($11,316,749.87) on Summit mechanical warrants numbered, 4000679479-  
    4000682165, plus manual or cancellation issues for claims, plus  
    Electronic Financial Transactions (EFT) of One Hundred Ninety Seven  
    Million, Six Hundred  Ninety Two Thousand, Two Hundred Fifty Four and  
    64/100 dollars ($197,692,254.64) are presented for ratification by the  
    City Council per Chapter 42.23 RCA.  
  
     SECTION 2. That any act consistent with the authority and prior to  
    the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    SECTION 3. This ordinance, being an ordinance required for the payment  
    of salaries or current expenses, shall take effect and be in force  
    immediately upon its approval, if approved by the Mayor; otherwise it  
    shall take effect at the time it shall become a law under the  
    provisions of the City Charter.  
  
    Passed by the City Council on the 27th day of May. 2003 and signed by  
    me in open session in authentication of its passage this Mar. 27,  
    2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      President ___________ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    Shields  
  
    Audited Claims Ordinance  
  
    May 27,2003  
