* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114582**   
**Ordinance Number: 121187**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE authorizing sale of the El Rey Apartments, at 2119 Second Avenue, to the Community Psychiatric Clinic for continued use as low- income housing; authorizing the Director of the Office of Housing to sign a contract for sale, deed and related documents, and to accept a note and deed of trust in the amount of the purchase price; authorizing provisions for forgiveness of the note beginning after 50 years of authorized use; repealing Ordinance 114690; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 16, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: Pageler)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 26, 2006   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 25, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 2, 2003   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services and Community Development   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER   
  
**Index Terms:** SALES, DOWNTOWN, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, SUBSIDIZED-HOUSING, MENTAL-HEALTH, MENTAL-ILLNESS  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 112148, 114690  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114582.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114582  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE authorizing sale of the El Rey Apartments, at 2119 Second  
    Avenue, to the Community Psychiatric Clinic for continued use as low-  
    income housing; authorizing the Director of the Office of Housing to  
    sign a contract for sale, deed and related documents, and to accept a  
    note and deed of trust in the amount of the purchase price;  
    authorizing provisions for forgiveness of the note beginning after 50  
    years of authorized use; repealing Ordinance 114690; and ratifying and  
    confirming prior acts.  
  
    WHEREAS, the City received funding from and entered into a contract  
    with the State of Washington Department of Social and Health Services  
    pursuant to Referendums 29 and 37 in 1986 for the acquisition,  
    construction, renovation, improvement and operation of a residential  
    facility for chronically, mentally ill persons; and  
  
    WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 112148, the City purchased the El Rey  
    Apartments from the Community Psychiatric Clinic; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 114690 authorized conveying the El Rey Apartments  
    to the Community Psychiatric Clinic, a Washington nonprofit  
    corporation ("CPC") using an Option to Purchase Real Property and a  
    Restated Lease, Operating and Management Agreement; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Community Psychiatric Clinic and City both desire to  
    transfer the ownership to CPC on terms different than those authorized  
    by Ordinance 114690; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City and the Community Psychiatric Clinic desire that the  
    El Rey Apartments continue to be used as low-income housing; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Mayor and the Director of the Office of Housing recommend  
    the sale of the El Rey Apartments to CPC as being in the best  
    interests of the City; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  As requested by the Director of the Office of Housing  
    ("Director") and recommended by the Mayor, said Director is hereby  
    authorized to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of The City of  
    Seattle, a Contract for Sale  ("Contract") in substantially the form  
    attached hereto as "Exhibit A," pursuant to which real property owned  
    by the City and located at 2119 Second Avenue, legally described as:  
  
    Lot 6 in Block 42 of Addition to the Town of Seattle as laid out by AA  
    Denny (commonly known as A.A. Denny's 6th Addition to the City of  
    Seattle), according to the plat recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, on page  
    99, records of King County;  
  
    Except the Northeasterly 12 feet of said lot condemned in King County  
    Superior Court Cause No. 39151 for widening of Second Avenue as  
    provided by Ordinance #9311 of the City of Seattle  
  
    (the "Property") will be sold to Community Psychiatric Clinic, subject  
    to the CPC's compliance with the conditions of such Contract.  
  
      Section 2.  The Director is further authorized, for and on behalf of  
    the City, to execute a Quit Claim Deed ("Deed") in substantially the  
    form attached hereto as "Exhibit B," for recording and delivery upon  
    the CPC's compliance with the other conditions of the Contract that  
    are to be satisfied at or before closing, including delivery by CPC of  
    the signed promissory note in the amount of the "Purchase Price" as  
    defined in Section 3, and simultaneous with the recording of the deed  
    of trust and regulatory agreement required by the Contract.  The  
    Director may incorporate in the Deed any reservations or conditions  
    that the Director may deem necessary or appropriate to protect the  
    interests of the City.  
  
    Section 3.  The "Purchase Price" is Two Million One Hundred Eighty  
    Thousand dollars ($2,180,000). CPC shall execute a non-recourse  
    promissory note to the City for the full amount of the Purchase Price,  
    secured by a deed of trust.  The deed of trust terms also shall  
    require CPC to maintain and make contributions to operating and  
    replacement reserves for the Property, and shall grant the City a  
    security interest in those reserves.  CPC will also execute a  
    regulatory agreement requiring occupancy or all units solely by  
    extremely low-income households, with rents affordable to such  
    households, and with priority for mentally disabled people, for a  
    minimum of 50 years.  The regulatory agreement will be recorded  
    against the Property, separate from and in addition to the deed of  
    trust, and shall require the use of the entire Property, except for a  
    portion of first floor, as affordable extremely low-income housing and  
    supportive services for the residents of such housing, for a minimum  
    of fifty years even if the entire amount owing on the promissory note  
    shall be paid earlier, unless the Mayor or Housing Director shall  
    determine to release the regulatory agreement earlier based upon a  
    determination that such release will result in a sale or other  
    transaction that will create a greater benefit for extremely low-  
    income households in Seattle than would maintaining the regulatory  
    agreement in effect.  For purposes of this section:  
  
    (i) an "extremely low-income household" is a household with annual  
    income, at the time of initial occupancy of a housing unit, at or  
    below 30% of the median family income for the Seattle-Bellevue-Everett  
    Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area, as published annually by the  
    United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, and as  
    adjusted for the size of the household in such manner as the Housing  
    Director or her designee shall determine, and  
  
    (ii) a unit is considered "affordable" to  an extremely low-income  
    household if the annual rent paid by the household, together with a  
    reasonable allowance for utilities paid by the household, is no  
    greater than 10.5% of such median family income, as adjusted, in such  
    manner as the Housing Director or his or her designee shall determine,  
    for the average size of household likely to occupy the unit.  
  
    All existing residents shall be permitted to remain in the Property  
    after the sale.  
  
    Section 4.  The promissory note terms will include interest at 1 % per  
    annum, with partial forgiveness of principal and interest each year  
    beginning in year 51 and full forgiveness in year 75, so long as CPC  
    shall not have defaulted on the note, deed of trust, or regulatory  
    agreement.  A portion of the Purchase Price, $548,185.04, which is  
    equal to the amount expended by the Office of Housing for renovations  
    to the building in 1999, will be payable, with interest thereon, in  
    annual installments out of one-half of the residual receipts from the  
    Property, with installments deferred to the extent such portion of  
    residual receipts is insufficient.  Any part of that portion of  
    principal, and interest thereon, remaining unpaid, shall become due  
    after 50 years, subject to CPC's option to extend for up to 25 years  
    by continuing to operate the Property under the conditions of the  
    Regulatory Agreement and subject to forgiveness provisions applicable  
    to the remaining balance of the note.  "Residual receipts" shall be  
    defined, in a manner specified by the Director, generally by deducting  
    from the gross revenues of the Property the reasonable cash outlays  
    for its operation and deposits in reserves for the Property approved  
    by the City.  Any payments received by the City shall be deposited in  
    the Low-Income Housing Fund.  
  
    Section 5.  The Director is hereby designated as the authorized  
    representative of the City of Seattle in connection with the  
    administration of the Contract and the related documents and is  
  
    authorized to grant such consents and approvals, and execute such  
    amendments, as she shall deem appropriate to carry out the intent of  
    this ordinance.  
  
    Section 6.  Any acts pursuant to the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 7.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachments:  
  
    A. Contract for Sale  
  
    B. Quit Claim Deed  
  
    Cindy Erickson/CE  
  
    Ord-Elreysale429  
  
    May 2, 2003  
  
    version #3  
  
    CONTRACT FOR SALE OF REAL ESTATE  
  
    (El Rey Apartments)  
  
    Table of Contents  
  
    Page  
  
    Article 1.  Agreement to Purchase and Sell.  1  
  
    1.01  Property Being Sold.  1  
  
    Article 2.  Purchase Price, Earnest Money and Purchase Money Mortgage  
    2  
  
    2.01  Purchase Price.  2  
  
    2.02  Purchase Money Documents.  2  
  
    2.03  Purchase Money Mortgage.  2  
  
    Article 3.  Low-Income Housing  2  
  
    3.01  Covenant.  2  
  
    Article 4.  Title Insurance and Condition of Title  2  
  
    4.01  Title Commitment.  2  
  
    4.02  Condition of Title.  3  
  
    Article 5.  Premises Sold "AS IS;" Inspection, Due Diligence  3  
  
    5.01  Purchaser's Acknowledgements and Agreement; Covenant not to Sue.  
    3  
  
    5.02  Changes in Conditions.  3  
  
    5.03  Hazardous Substances and Indemnity.  4  
  
    Article 6. Purchaser's Representations and Warranties; Indemnity  4  
  
    6.01  Representations and Warranties.  4  
  
    6.02  Reaffirmation.  5  
  
    6.03  Indemnity.  5  
  
    Article 7.  Seller's Covenants  5  
  
    7.01  Fixtures and Equipment.  5  
  
    7.02  Liens and Encumbrances.  5  
  
    Article 8.  Seller's Warranties  5  
  
    8.01  Seller's Authority.  5  
  
    8.02  Leases.  6  
  
    8.03  Personal Property.  6  
  
    8.04  Condemnation Proceedings.  6  
  
    8.05  Liens.  6  
  
    Article 9.  [Reserved]  6  
  
    Article 10.  [Reserved]  6  
  
    Article 11.  Damage, Destruction, and Condemnation  6  
  
    11.01  Damage and Destruction.  6  
  
    11.02  Condemnation.  7  
  
    Article 12.  Closing; Option for Escrow  7  
  
    12.01  Time and Place of Closing.  7  
  
    12.02  Option for Escrow Closing.  7  
  
    Article 13.  Seller's Closing Obligations  7  
  
    13.01  Seller's Performance at Closing  7  
  
    13.02  Assignment of Insurance Proceeds  8  
  
    13.03  Awards for Taking or Damage to Real Estate  8  
  
    13.04  Seller's Warranties.  8  
  
    Article 14.  Purchaser's Closing Obligations  8  
  
    14.01  8  
  
    Article 15.  Prorations and Form of Payment  9  
  
    15.01  Matters to be Prorated.  9  
  
    15.02  Form of Payment.  9  
  
    Article 16.  Post-Closing Adjustments [N/A]  9  
  
    Article 17.  Termination and Default  9  
  
    17.01  Seller's Default.  9  
  
    17.02  Purchaser's Default.  10  
  
    17.03  Termination Without Liability.  10  
  
    Article 18.  Notices  10  
  
    18.01  Method of Notice.  10  
  
    18.02  Change of Address  10  
  
    Article 19.  Brokers  10  
  
    19.01  No Brokers.  10  
  
    19.02  Indemnity.  11  
  
    Article 20.  Survival of Obligations  11  
  
    20.01  Survival.  11  
  
    20.02  Other Documents.  11  
  
    Article 21.  Miscellaneous  11  
  
    21.01  Assignment.  11  
  
    21.02  Time.  11  
  
    21.03  Entire Agreement, Amendment.  11  
  
    21.04  Governing Law.  12  
  
    21.05  Captions.  12  
  
    21.06.  Binding Effect.  12  
  
    21.07  Gender and Number.  12  
  
    21.08  Schedules.  12  
  
    21.09  Construction.  12  
  
    Article 22.  Definitions.  12  
  
    Schedule A - Legal description  14  
  
    Schedule B - Provisions for Purchase Money Mortgage  15  
  
    Schedule C: List of Personal Property Included  16  
  
    CONTRACT FOR SALE OF REAL ESTATE  
  
      This Contract for Sale of Real Estate ("Contract") is made and  
    entered into on the date set forth below, by and between THE CITY OF  
    SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("Seller"), and COMMUNITY  
    PSYCHIATRIC CLINIC, a Washington nonprofit corporation ("Purchaser").  
  
    Summary of Key Terms (Items)  
  
    I.  Seller's name and address:  THE CITY OF SEATTLE, Seattle Office of  
    Housing,  
  
              Key Tower 57th floor, 700 5th Ave., Seattle WA 98103.  
  
    II.  Purchaser's name and address:   COMMUNITY PSYCHIATRIC CLINIC,  
  
                  4319 Stone Way North, Seattle, WA 98103.  
  
    III.  Street address of the Real Estate: 2119 Second Avenue North,  
    Seattle WA  
  
    IV.  Purchase Price: $2,180,000.00  
  
    V.  Earnest Money: None  
  
    VI.  Party to hold Earnest Money: N/A  
  
    VII.  Title Insurer: ____________________  
  
    VIII.  Mortgage contingency: N/A  
  
    IX.  Continuing Mortgage: N/A  
  
    X.  Purchase Money Mortgage amount $  
  
    XI.  Scheduled Closing date: July 15, 2003.  
  
    XII.  Name and address of listing broker: N/A  
  
    XIII.  Name and address of cooperating broker: N/A  
  
    XIV.  Date of Execution of this Contract: _________________, 2003  
  
    XV.  Place of Execution of this Contract: Seattle, WA  
  
    AGREEMENT  
  
    In consideration of the mutual covenants herein, the parties hereto  
    agree as follows:  
  
    Article 1.  Agreement to Purchase and Sell.  
  
    1.01  Property Being Sold.  
  
    Seller agrees to sell to Purchaser and Purchaser agrees to purchase  
    from Seller, as provided in this Contract and subject to the  
    conditions herein:  
  
      (a)  the parcel of land ("Land") that is described in Schedule A,  
  
      (b)  all buildings and improvements (collectively, the "Building")  
    situated on the Land,  
  
      (c)  any appurtenances to the Land and Building, and  
  
      (d)  any right, title and interest of Seller in  
  
      (i)  the fixtures and equipment attached or appurtenant to the  
    Building and  
  
      (ii)  any personal property described in Schedule C.  
  
    The property described in subsections (a) through (c) is collectively  
    referred to herein as the "Real Estate" and the property described in  
    subsections (a) through (d) is collectively referred to herein as the  
    "Premises."  
  
    Article 2.  Purchase Price, Earnest Money and Purchase Money Mortgage  
  
    2.01  Purchase Price.  
  
    Purchaser will, at Closing, deliver a promissory note ("Purchase Money  
    Note") in the amount of the Purchase Price that is specified in Item  
    IV above.  
  
    2.02  Purchase Money Documents.  
  
    Schedule B hereto includes provisions related to the terms of the  
    Purchase Money Note and other Purchase Money Documents, as defined in  
    Schedule B.  
  
    2.03  Purchase Money Mortgage.  
  
    The Purchase Money Note shall be secured by a Deed of Trust,  
    Assignment of Rents, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing on the  
    Premises granted by Purchaser, in form and content as required by the  
    Seller's Director of Housing.  
  
    Article 3.  Low-Income Housing  
  
    3.01  Covenant.  
  
    The intent of this sale is to assure the continued use of the Premises  
    as housing for extremely low-income disabled persons.  Accordingly, as  
    a condition of Seller's obligations at Closing the Purchaser shall  
    executed, acknowledge and deliver for recording a Regulatory Agreement  
    ("Covenant") committing the use of the Premises, excepting a portion  
    of the first floor now in commercial use, to extremely low-income  
    housing, on terms consistent with Ordinance ____________ and otherwise  
    acceptable to Seller's Director of Housing.  Such Covenant shall be  
    recorded ahead of, and shall have priority over the Purchaser Money  
    Mortgage.  
  
    Article 4.  Title Insurance and Condition of Title  
  
    4.01  Title Commitment.  
  
    Promptly after the Date of Execution Purchaser will apply, at its own  
    expense, for issuance by Title Insurer of a commitment for an owner's  
    title insurance policy if so desired by Purchaser.  On receipt of the  
    commitment Purchaser will promptly cause a copy of the commitment to  
    be delivered to the Seller, together with a statement of any special  
    exceptions shown thereon to which Purchaser objects.  If Purchaser  
    does not obtain such a commitment and deliver a copy thereof to the  
    Seller within __ days after execution of this Contract, any conditions  
    herein related to a title insurance policy will be deemed irrevocably  
    waived by Purchaser. If Purchaser provides a copy of such commitment,  
    then any exception shown thereon to which Purchaser does not provide a  
    written objection to Seller within ___ days after the Date of  
    Execution shall be deemed irrevocably accepted by Purchaser.  If  
    Purchaser does make timely objection to any exception and if Seller  
    does not provide written notice within ___ days thereafter that it  
    will remove such exception, then at the option of either party this  
    Contract shall be terminated and neither party shall have any  
    obligation to the other hereunder.  
  
    4.02  Condition of Title.  
  
    If Purchaser shall have timely obtained and provided to Seller a copy  
    of a title commitment, it shall be a condition to Purchaser's  
    obligation to complete the purchase that title shall be insurable at  
    Closing, by a standard form owner's policy, subject to no special  
    exceptions other than (A) those shown on the commitment and not made  
    the subject of timely written objection by Purchaser under Section  
    4.01, (B) any exceptions created or suffered by Purchaser, including  
    without limitation any tenants or subtenants in possession, and (C)  
    the Covenant described in Section 3.01 hereof (collectively, the  
    "Permitted Exceptions").  
  
    Article 5.  Premises Sold "AS IS;" Inspection, Due Diligence  
  
    5.01  Purchaser's Acknowledgements and Agreement; Covenant not to Sue.  
  
    Purchaser acknowledges that it has been in possession of the Premises  
    as lessee for approximately 17 years, and prior to that time was the  
    owner of the Premises.  Accordingly, Purchaser is familiar with all  
    aspects of the condition of the Premises, having greater knowledge  
    thereof than Seller.  Purchaser has made all inspections it deems  
    necessary.  Purchaser agrees to accept the Premises AS IS, with all  
    faults, and further agrees that Seller has no duty to discover or to  
    disclose to Purchaser any matters regarding the condition of the  
    Premises, whether or not known to Seller or to Purchaser.  Purchaser  
    acknowledges that neither Seller nor any person acting on Seller's  
    behalf has made any representations or warranties whatever, express or  
    implied, to Purchaser, or upon which Purchaser is relying, regarding  
    the condition of the Premises.  Purchaser covenants not to sue Seller  
    or any of its officers, employees or agents for any condition of the  
    Premises or consequences thereof, or for any representation, statement  
    or omission to disclose anything regarding the condition of the  
    Premises.  
  
    5.02  Changes in Conditions.  
  
    Purchaser agrees to accept the risk of any changes in condition of the  
    Premises after the date hereof, and agrees than any such changes shall  
    not affect its obligations hereunder.  
  
    5.03  Hazardous Substances and Indemnity.  
  
    Purchaser has, at its own expense, conducted such surveys and  
    investigations of the Premises as it deems warranted, including  
    investigations by itself and others in its employ, to determine the  
    nature and extent of any Hazardous Substances.  Purchaser is satisfied  
    that it is sufficiently aware of all such conditions on the Premises  
    and accepts the risks associated with their presence, and shall  
    undertake any remediation of any Hazardous Substances as required by  
    law. Purchaser is aware of its rights to seek contribution from Seller  
    for remediation and cleanup of such Hazardous Substances as a matter  
    of law, and knowingly waives all such rights, now existing or  
    hereafter arising, and voluntarily relinquishes those rights and  
    forever releases the Seller from any such obligation.  Purchaser  
    irrevocably releases the Seller and its employees, officers and agents  
    from any responsibility for cleanup of any Hazardous Substances, as  
    this term is defined in the Washington Model Toxics Control Act  
    ("MTCA") and  the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response,  
    Compensation, and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), and any amendments to  
    either such Act, on, under or migrating from the Premises.  Purchaser  
    releases and shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Seller from any  
    and all claims arising out of any Hazardous Substances on, under or  
    migrating from the Premises prior to Closing. Purchaser further  
    releases and shall further indemnify, defend and hold Seller harmless  
    from, any claims arising out of any Hazardous Substances on, under or  
    migrating from the Premises after Closing.  
  
    Article 6. Purchaser's Representations and Warranties; Indemnity  
  
    6.01  Representations and Warranties.  
  
    Purchaser represents and warrants as follows:  
  
      (a)  Purchaser is a nonprofit corporation duly organized, validly  
    existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of  
    Washington and has the power to own its property and assets and to  
    operate the Premises as currently operated and as contemplated by the  
    Covenant;  
  
      (b)  This Contract has been duty authorized, executed and delivered  
    by Purchaser, constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of  
    Purchaser and is enforceable against Purchaser in accordance with its  
    terms;  
  
      (c)  The individual executing this Contract on behalf of Purchaser  
    is authorized to do so;  
  
      (d)  The Purchase Money Documents, when executed by the same  
    individual executing this Contract and when delivered at Closing, will  
    have been duty authorized, executed and delivered by Purchaser,  
    constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of Purchaser, and  
    be enforceable against Purchaser in accordance with their terms;  
  
      (e)  The purchase of the Premises and the execution and delivery of  
    the Purchase Money Documents will not conflict with or result in a  
    breach of, any other agreement or instrument to which Purchaser is a  
    party or by which it is or may be bound or constitute a default under  
    any of the foregoing, or violate any state or federal governmental  
    law, statute, ordinance or regulation in effect on the Date of  
    Execution of this Contract; and  
  
      (f)  The Purchaser has not assigned, voluntarily or involuntarily,  
    or suffered any lien or encumbrance upon, any interest in that certain  
    Option Agreement between Seller and Purchaser dated  
    ___________________, 198__.  
  
    6.02  Reaffirmation.  
  
    Purchaser's tender of documents for Closing shall constitute new  
    representations and warranties by Purchaser to the effect that its  
    representations and warranties made in this Contract are true on and  
    as of the Closing Date.  
  
    6.03  Indemnity.  
  
    Purchaser hereby agrees to defend, protect, indemnify and hold Seller  
    harmless from any and all loss, damage, liability or expense,  
    including attorneys' fees and costs, Seller may suffer as a result of  
    any breach of or any inaccuracy of the foregoing representations and  
    warranties, as of the Date of Execution or as of the Closing Date.  
  
    Article 7.  Seller's Covenants  
  
    Seller covenants that between the Date of Execution and Closing:  
  
    7.01  Fixtures and Equipment.  
  
    Seller shall not remove any fixtures, equipment and personal property  
    included in the sale from the Real Estate unless such these are  
    replaced with similar items of at least equal quality prior to Closing  
    (any such replacement items will be included in the sale).  
  
    7.02  Liens and Encumbrances.  
  
    Seller shall not create or suffer any new leases, liens or  
    encumbrances on its interest in the Premises.  
  
    Article 8.  Seller's Warranties  
  
      Seller makes the following warranties to Purchaser as of the Date of  
    Execution:  
  
    8.01  Seller's Authority.  
  
    Seller has authority to enter into and perform this Contract.  
  
    8.02  Leases.  
  
    Seller has not leased any part of the Real Property except to  
    Purchaser.  
  
    8.03  Personal Property.  
  
    Schedule C lists all items of personal property that are included in  
    the sale, and such property is free of liens and encumbrances.  
  
    8.04  Condemnation Proceedings.  
  
    No authority having the right of condemnation or eminent domain has  
    commenced negotiations with Seller, nor has Seller been notified of  
    the commencement of any legal action against Seller for the damaging,  
    taking or acquiring of all or any part of the Real Estate, either  
    temporarily or permanently, by condemnation or by exercise of the  
    right of eminent domain.  
  
    8.05  Liens.  
  
    Seller has not created any liens against the Premises.  
  
    Article 9.  [Reserved]  
  
    Article 10.  [Reserved]  
  
    Article 11.  Damage, Destruction, and Condemnation  
  
    11.01  Damage and Destruction.  
  
      a.  If, prior to Closing, any improvements on the Real Estate are  
    destroyed or damaged by fire, other casualty or any act or occurrence  
    other than a deliberate act of Purchaser and the cost to repair  
    exceeds the Maximum Repair Amount, then Purchaser may terminate this  
    Contract by written notice to Seller given within ___ days after such  
    event, in which case neither party shall have any liability to the  
    other hereunder; otherwise Purchaser is required to complete the  
    transaction.  
  
      b.  In the event of any damage or loss covered by insurance, if this  
    Contract is to be performed, Seller will permit Purchaser to take part  
    in negotiations with the insurance companies, but Seller will receive  
    the proceeds of insurance applicable thereto.  
  
      c.  The "Maximum Repair Amount" is ten percent of the Purchase  
    Price.  
  
    11.02  Condemnation.  
  
    If, after the Date of Execution, any authority having the right of  
    condemnation or eminent domain commences negotiations with Seller or  
    commences a proceeding against Seller for the damaging, taking or  
    acquiring of all or any part of the Real Estate, either temporarily or  
    permanently, by condemnation or by exercise of the right of eminent  
    domain, Seller will immediately give notice thereof to Purchaser.  
    Upon the occurrence of any such event, Purchaser may terminate this  
    Contract by giving notice to Seller on or before the date fixed for  
    Closing, or within 14 days after Purchaser has received notice from  
    Seller, whichever is earlier, in which event Section 17.03 will apply.  
    If Purchaser does not so terminate this Contract, Seller will advise  
    Purchaser as to, and will allow Purchaser to participate in, any  
    negotiations regarding such proceedings.  
  
    Article 12.  Closing; Option for Escrow  
  
    12.01  Time and Place of Closing.  
  
    The delivery and recording of the Deed, Purchase Money Documents,  
    Covenant and other documents described herein is referred to as the  
    "Closing." Closing is scheduled to occur on the date specified in item  
    XI, at the offices of the Seller's Office of Housing unless otherwise  
    specified by a party under Section 12.02. The actual date of Closing  
    (which is referred to herein as the "Closing Date") may be earlier if  
    mutual agreed between the parties.  
  
    12.02  Option for Escrow Closing.  
  
    At the election of either party on notice to the other party not less  
    than five business days prior to the scheduled Closing, this sale will  
    be closed through an escrow with Title Insurer (or affiliate). On the  
    creation of an escrow under this Section, delivery of the deed and all  
    closing documents will be made through the escrow. The cost of the  
    escrow will be paid entirely by Purchaser.  If either party elects an  
    escrow, the provisions of this Contract shall constitute the joint  
    instructions of the parties to the escrow agent; provided, however,  
    that the parties shall execute such reasonable additional instructions  
    as may be requested by either party or the escrow agent, not  
    inconsistent with the provisions of this Contract.  
  
    Article 13.  Seller's Closing Obligations  
  
    13.01  Seller's Performance at Closing  
  
    At Closing, Seller will deliver the following to Purchaser (through  
    escrow, if applicable under Article 12):  
  
      a.  A quitclaim deed ("Deed") substantially in the form attached to  
    Ordinance ____________.  
  
      b.  A real estate excise tax affidavit.  
  
      c.  A certificate as provided in the Foreign Investment in Real  
    Property Tax Act of 1980.  
  
      d.  Possession of the Premises subject to any leases or subleases  
    created by Purchaser and subject to tenancies of persons in occupancy.  
  
      e.  All keys to the Premises in Seller's possession.  
  
      f.  Bill of Sale.  A bill of sale transferring title to any personal  
    property described in Schedule C with full warranty of title and  
    freedom from encumbrances but without warranty or representation of  
    quality, merchantability, fitness for use or otherwise.  
  
    13.02  Assignment of Insurance Proceeds  
  
    If there shall be an insured casualty prior to closing, and Purchaser  
    does not terminate this Contract pursuant to subsection 11.01-a,  
    Seller will assign to Purchaser all rights of Seller to any insurance  
    proceeds or other proceeds payable by reason of any fire or other  
    casualty loss that is described in subsection 11.01-a, and will credit  
    Purchaser with the amount of any such proceeds that Seller receives  
    before Closing.  
  
    13.03  Awards for Taking or Damage to Real Estate  
  
    If Purchaser does not terminate this Contract pursuant to Section  
    11.02, (a) the Purchase Price will be reduced by the total of any  
    awards, settlement funds or other proceeds received by Seller at or  
    before Closing with respect to any damaging, taking or acquiring the  
    Real Estate (as described in section 11.02), and (b) Seller will  
    assign to Purchaser all right of Seller in any awards, settlement  
    funds or other proceeds payable by reason of any such damaging, taking  
    or acquiring the Real Estate.  
  
    13.04  Seller's Warranties.  
  
    All of Seller's warranties in Article 8 will be deemed to have been  
    re-made upon Seller's tender of a deed at Closing.  
  
    Article 14.  Purchaser's Closing Obligations  
  
    14.01  
  
    On the date and time scheduled for Closing, or such earlier date and  
    time as may be mutually agreed in writing by the parties, Purchaser  
    shall:  
  
      a.  Payment of Costs. Pay to the Title Insurer or other person  
    entitled thereto, or as directed by Seller, all costs and fees payable  
    by Purchaser hereunder.  
  
      b.  Execution of Deed. Execute, acknowledge, and deliver for  
    recording the Deed as Grantee.  
  
      c.  Execution of Covenant.  Execute, acknowledge, and deliver for  
    recording the Covenant.  
  
      d.  Execute and deliver the real estate excise tax affidavit.  
  
      e.  Other Documents.  Execute and deliver any other documents that  
    are required for Purchaser to perform its obligations under this  
    Contract and for the Title Insurer to issue its lender's policy to  
    Seller.  
  
      f.  Purchase Money Documents.  Execute, acknowledge (as appropriate)  
    and deliver to Seller all Purchase Money Documents, and comply with  
    Schedule B.  
  
    Article 15.  Prorations and Form of Payment  
  
    15.01  Matters to be Prorated.  
  
    There shall be no adjustments for prorations.  The Purchaser shall be  
    responsible for any real property taxes, surface water management fees  
    and other governmental charges accruing or falling due after the date  
    of conveyance.  
  
    15.02  Form of Payment.  
  
    All monies payable to Seller or to the escrow agent at Closing, unless  
    otherwise provided in this Contract, will be paid by one or more of  
    (a) certified checks of Purchaser drawn on any bank, savings bank,  
    trust company or savings and loan association having a banking office  
    in the State of Washington, (b) official checks drawn by any such  
    institution, or (c) wire transfer of funds.  
  
    Article 16.  Post-Closing Adjustments [N/A]  
  
    Article 17.  Termination and Default  
  
    17.01  Seller's Default.  
  
    If Purchaser tenders full performance on the scheduled date for  
    Closing and Seller does not convey such title as is insurable  
    according to the terms of this Contract subject to the Permitted  
    Exceptions, then:  
  
      a.  Purchaser may elect to accept such title as Seller shall convey,  
    if any, in which case Purchaser will not be entitled to any claim or  
    credit arising from any defect in title; or  
  
      b.  Purchaser may elect, as its sole remedy, to seek damages not to  
    exceed its out-of-pocket costs reasonably incurred in order to  
    implement this Contract.  
  
    Purchaser shall not in any case be entitled to specific performance,  
    injunctive relief, benefit-of-bargain damages, consequential or other  
    damages.  
  
    17.02  Purchaser's Default.  
  
    If Purchaser defaults Seller may pursue any available remedy.  Without  
    limiting the foregoing, if Purchaser does not tender full performance  
    on the date set for Closing under this Contract, then at the option of  
    Seller exercisable by written notice to Purchaser at any time  
    thereafter, this Contract and any rights of the Purchaser to acquire  
    the Premises shall be void and of no further effect.  
  
    17.03  Termination Without Liability.  
  
    If this Contract terminates and by its terms Section 17.03 is to  
    apply, no party will thereafter have any obligation or liability under  
    this Contract.  
  
    Article 18.  Notices  
  
    18.01  Method of Notice.  
  
    Any authorization, consent, demand, election, notice or request that  
    is provided for or giving hereunder (herein, collectively, "Notices"),  
    must be in writing, signed by the party giving the same, and delivered  
    or mailed to the intended recipient. A Notice will be deemed to have  
    been given:  
  
      a.  If delivered:  When delivered during normal working hours.  
  
      b.  If mailed:  Five days after an envelope containing the same is  
    mailed, postage pre-paid by registered mail, to the addressee (at the  
    addressee's address as shown in item I or II) from a post office  
    located in the city to which or from which the notice is sent.  
  
    18.02  Change of Address  
  
    The address of a party may be changed by Notice given as provided  
    above.  
  
    Article 19.  Brokers  
  
    19.01  No Brokers.  
  
    Seller and Purchaser mutually represent and warrant neither Seller nor  
    Purchaser knows of any broker who has claimed or may have the right to  
    claim a commission in connection with this Contract.  
  
    19.02  Indemnity.  
  
    Seller and Purchaser will indemnify and defend each other against any  
    costs, claims or expenses, including attorneys' fees, arising out of  
    the breach on their respective parts  
  
    of any provision of Article 19.  
  
    Article 20.  Survival of Obligations  
  
    20.01  Survival.  
  
    The parties' obligations (which include obligations under warranties  
    and representations), waivers, and releases under Article 5, Article  
    6, Article 8, Section 13.04, and Articles 18 through 22, inclusive,  
    will survive Closing; all other obligations of the parties under the  
    Contract will be extinguished by completion of Closing.  
  
    20.02  Other Documents.  
  
    Article 20 will not affect any party's obligations under any document  
    other than this Contract.  Purchaser's obligations under the Covenant  
    and Purchase Money Documents will survive Closing.  
  
    Article 21.  Miscellaneous  
  
    21.01  Assignment.  
  
    Purchaser may not assign this Contract or Purchaser's rights hereunder  
    without the prior consent of Seller. No permitted assignment of  
    Purchaser's rights under this Contract will be effective against  
    Seller until an executed counterpart of the instrument of assignment  
    has been delivered to Seller and Seller has been furnished with the  
    name and address of the assignee.  
  
    21.02  Time.  
  
    Time is of the essence of this Contract. If a time period would expire  
    on other than a week day that is a City of Seattle working day, the  
    time period will be extended to the next week day that is a City of  
    Seattle working day.  
  
    21.03  Entire Agreement, Amendment.  
  
    This Contract represents the entire agreement of the parties with  
    respect to the purchase and sale of the Premises, and any and all  
    options and agreements, oral or written, on that subject, entered into  
    prior to the date hereof are revoked and superseded by this Contract.  
    The existing lease to Purchaser shall terminate effective on the date  
    of Closing, but until closing shall remain in effect.  
  
    No provision of this Contract may be waived, modified, amended,  
    discharged or terminated except by an instrument signed by the party  
    against whom the enforcement thereof is sought, and then only to the  
    extent set forth in the instrument.  
  
    21.04  Governing Law.  
  
    This Contract will be governed by, and construed in accordance with,  
    the law of the State of Washington.  
  
    21.05  Captions.  
  
    The captions in this Contract are provided for convenience of  
    reference only and do not by themselves define, describe or limit the  
    scope or intent of the Contract.  
  
    21.06.  Binding Effect.  
  
    This Contract will be binding on and will inure to the benefit of the  
    parties hereto and their respective heirs, personal representatives,  
    successors and permitted assigns.  
  
    21.07  Gender and Number.  
  
    As used in this Contract and unless otherwise required by the context,  
    any pronoun includes the masculine, the feminine, and the neuter; the  
    singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.  
  
    21.08  Schedules.  
  
    If the provisions of any Schedule attached to this Contract are  
    inconsistent with the provisions of the Contract, the provisions of  
    the Schedule will prevail. The last page of this Contract contains a  
    list of all Schedules that form part of this Contract.  
  
    21.09 Construction.  
  
    This is a negotiated agreement.  Each party has had the opportunity to  
    have this Contract reviewed by its respective legal counsel, and the  
    terms and conditions of this Contract are not to be construed against  
    any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.  
  
    Article 22.  Definitions.  
  
      Any reference herein to an "Item" with a Roman numeral refers to the  
    Summary of Key Terms at the beginning of this Contract.  The following  
    terms are defined in the indicated items, sections and Schedules of  
    the Contract:  
  
      Building -- 1.01  
  
      Closing -- 12.01  
  
      Closing Date -- 12.01  
  
      Date of Execution - XIV  
  
      Land -- 1.01  
  
      Maximum Repair Amount -- 11.01-c  
  
      Notices -- 18.01  
  
      Permitted Exceptions -- 4.02  
  
      Premises -- 1.01  
  
      Purchase Money Documents -- B-3-a  
  
      Purchase Money Mortgage -- B-3-b  
  
      Purchase Money Note -- B-3-c  
  
      Purchase Price -- IV  
  
      Purchaser -- II  
  
      Real Estate -- 1.01  
  
      Seller -- I  
  
      Title Insurer -- VII  
  
    Purchaser  
  
    COMMUNITY PSYCHIATRIC CLINIC  
  
    By:__________________________  
  
    Name:_______________________  
  
    Title:________________________  
  
    Seller  
  
    THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    By:__________________________  
  
    Name:_______________________  
  
    Title:________________________  
  
    Schedules  
  
    A - Description of Land (Section 1.01)  
  
    B - Provisions for Purchase Money Mortgage (Section 2.03)  
  
    C -  Personal Property (Section 8.03)  
  
    Schedule A - Legal description  
  
    Lot 6 in Block 42 of Addition to the Town of Seattle as laid out by AA  
    Denny (commonly known as A.A. Denny's 6th Addition to the City of  
    Seattle), according to the plat recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, on page  
    99, records of King County;  
  
    Except the Northeasterly 12 feet of said lot condemned in King County  
    Superior Court Cause No. 39151 for widening of Second Avenue as  
    provided by Ordinance #9311 of the City of Seattle  
  
    Schedule B - Provisions for Purchase Money Mortgage  
  
    B-1.  Required Provisions.  The Purchase Money Documents be prepared  
    by the Seller, consistent with Ordinance ____________, and will  
    contain the following provisions:  
  
    [to be added; or attach copies]  
  
    B-2.  At Closing, Purchaser will (a) pay any governmental charges, and  
    any filing or recording fees, in connection with the Purchase Money  
    Documents, and (b) provide at its expense a title insurance policy, or  
    a commitment issued by Title Insurer, satisfactory to Seller, to issue  
    an extended coverage ALTA mortgage title insurance policy insuring the  
    lien on the Real Estate of the Purchase Money Mortgage, in the amount  
    thereof, on such policy form and with such endorsements as the Seller  
    shall require, and subject to no special exceptions with respect to  
    any matters caused or suffered by Purchaser, except for the Covenant.  
  
    B-3.  Definitions.  Unless otherwise required by the context, the  
    following terms  
  
    have the indicated meanings:  
  
      a.  The "Purchase Money Documents" consist of the Purchase Money  
    Mortgage and the Purchase Money Note.  
  
      b.  The "Purchase Money Mortgage" is the deed of trust, assignment  
    of rents, security agreement and fixture filing that is referred to in  
    Section 2.03.  
  
      c.  The "Purchase Money Note" is the note that is referred to in  
    Section 2.03.  
  
    Schedule C: List of Personal Property Included  
  
    Exhibit A  
  
    After recording, return to:  
  
    Seattle Office of Housing  
  
    57th Floor, 700 Fifth Ave.  
  
    Seattle, WA 98104  
  
    Attn: Cindy Erickson  
  
    QUIT CLAIM DEED with GRANTEE's COVENANTS, RELEASES AND INDEMNITY  
  
    Reference number of related documents: N/A  
  
    Grantor: The City of Seattle  
  
    Grantee: Community Psychiatric Clinic  
  
    Legal Description:  
  
    1.  Abbreviated Form: Lot 6, Blk 42, AA Denny's 6th Add, Vol. 1, pg.  
    99  
  
    2.  Additional legal description is on Page 1 of document.  
  
    Assessor's Property Tax Parcel Account Number(s): 197720 0720  
  
    Grant.  The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation  
    ("Grantor"), for and in consideration of the sum of Two Million One  
    Hundred Eighty Thousand Dollars ($_2,180,000.00 to be paid  
    under the terms of a promissory note of even date herewith, the  
    covenants, releases and indemnity set forth herein, and that certain  
    Regulatory Agreement (Easements and Covenants for Low-Income Housing)  
    dated as of the date hereof, hereby conveys and quit claims to  
    Community Psychiatric Clinic, a Washington nonprofit corporation  
    ("Grantee"), that certain real property located in the City of  
    Seattle, King County, Washington, and legally described as follows  
    ("Property"):  
  
    Lot 6 in Block 42 of Addition to the Town of Seattle as laid out by AA  
    Denny (commonly known as AA Denny's 6th Addition to the City of  
    Seattle), according to the plat recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, on page  
    99, records of King County; Except the Northeasterly 12 feet of said  
    lot condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 39151 for  
    widening of Second Avenue as provided by Ordinance #9311 of the City  
    of Seattle  
  
    GRANTEE's COVENANTS, RELEASES AND INDEMNITY ("Covenant")  
  
    The Property is conveyed as-is, where-is, with-all-faults, and without  
    any representation or warranty whatsoever, express or implied, as to  
    its condition, environmental or otherwise, or its suitability or  
    sufficiency for the Grantee's intended uses and purposes.    Grantee  
    acknowledges that adverse physical, economic or other conditions  
    (including without limitation, adverse environmental soils and ground-  
    water conditions), either latent or patent, may exist on the Property  
    and assumes Grantor's responsibility for all environmental conditions  
    of the Property, known or unknown, including but not limited to  
    responsibility, if any, for investigation, removal or remediation  
    actions relating to the presence, release or threatened release of any  
    Hazardous Substance or other environmental contamination relating to  
    the Property.   Grantee also releases, covenants not to sue, and shall  
    indemnify, defend, and hold Grantor and its past, present and future  
    officials, employees, and agents, harmless from and against any and  
    all claims, demands, penalties, fees, damages, losses, expenses  
    (including but not limited to fees and costs of regulatory agencies,  
    attorneys, contractors and consultants), and liabilities arising out  
    of, or in any way connected with, the condition of the Property  
    including but not limited to any alleged or actual past, present or  
    future presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous  
    Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property, or any portion  
    thereof or improvement thereon, from any cause whatsoever; it being  
    intended that Grantee shall so indemnify Grantor and such personnel  
    without regard to any fault or responsibility of Grantor or Grantee.  
    The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or  
    remediation of the Property and the acknowledgements, releases, and  
    covenants herein touch and concern the Property, are intended to run  
    with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and  
    assigns, and inure to the benefit of Grantor and its successors and  
    assigns.  
  
    For purposes of this Covenant, the term "Hazardous Substance" shall  
    mean petroleum products and compounds containing them; flammable  
    materials; radioactive materials; polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs")  
    and compounds containing them; lead, asbestos or asbestos-containing  
    materials in any friable form; underground or above-ground storage  
    tanks; and any substance or material that is now is or hereafter  
    becomes regulated under any federal, state, or local statute,  
    ordinance, rule, regulation, or other law relating to environmental  
    protection, contamination or cleanup.  
  
    Grantee's release and covenant not to sue shall include both claims by  
    Grantee as original plaintiff against Grantor and any cross-claims,  
    third-party claims or other claims against Grantor by Grantee based  
    upon claims made against Grantee by any third parties.  
  
    The terms of this Covenant shall apply regardless of whether or not  
    Grantee is culpable, negligent or in violation of any law, ordinance,  
    rule or regulation.  Nothing herein shall release, discharge or affect  
    any rights or causes of action that Grantor or Grantee may have  
    against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly  
    stated herein, and each of the parties reserves all such rights  
    including, but not limited to, claims for contribution or cost  
    recovery relating to any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or  
    emanating from the Property.  
  
    The terms of this Covenant are in addition to, and not in substitution  
    for, those terms of the Contract for Sale of Real Property dated  
    ______________, 2003 between Grantor and Grantee that, by the terms of  
    such Contract, survive the delivery of this deed.  
  
    Executed this ____day of ___________, 2003, pursuant to Ordinance   
     of The City of Seattle.  
  
                THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
                By:            
  
                Katie Hong  
  
    Director, Office of Housing  
  
          Grantee:  
  
    Community Psychiatric Clinic  
  
                 By:              
  
            Print Name:           
  
                Print Title:   
  
  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
                                                    ) ss  
  
    COUNTY OF KING         )  
  
      On this ____ day of __________, 200    , before me, the  
    undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly  
    commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ________________________,  
    to me known to be the Housing Director of THE CITY OF SEATTLE,  
    the municipal corporation on behalf of which the within and foregoing  
    instrument was executed, and acknowledged said instrument to be the  
    free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation, for the  
    uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that s/he was  
    authorized to execute said instrument.  
  
      WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in  
    this instrument above written.  
  
                                    
  
      (Signature)            (Print or Type Name)  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at   
    .  
  
    My commission expires ____________.  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
                                                    ) ss  
  
    COUNTY OF KING         )  
  
      On this ____ day of __________, 200    , before me, the  
    undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly  
    commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ______________________, to  
    me known to be the __________________________ of Community Psychiatric  
    Clinic, the Washington nonprofit corporation on behalf of which the  
    within and foregoing instrument was executed, and acknowledged said  
    instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said  
    corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath  
    stated that s/he was authorized to execute said instrument.  
  
      WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in  
    this instrument above written.  
  
                                    
  
      (Signature)            (Print or Type Name)  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at   
    .  
  
    My commission expires ____________.  
  
    3  
  
      EXHIBIT B - 1  
