* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114568**   
**Ordinance Number: 121176**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to City employment, creating a compensation program for the position of City Light Superintendent, and specifying provisions for the administration of said compensation program.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 9, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 12, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 19, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** CITY-EMPLOYEES, WAGES-AND-SALARIES, CITY-LIGHT  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114568.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114568  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to City employment, creating a compensation  
    program for the position of City Light Superintendent, and specifying  
    provisions for the administration of said compensation program.  
  
    WHEREAS, the City has adopted a Work Force and Compensation Philosophy  
    which states, in part: "The City of Seattle will establish and  
    maintain a compensation system, including wages, benefits and  
    retirement so it is possible to continue to attract, retain,  
    recognize, develop and value high quality employees at all levels.  
    The following standards will be applied in balance so employee  
    compensation is:  Competitive in relationship to the labor markets  
    where the City competes for employees.  Internally equitable.  
    Fiscally responsible in relationship to the long-term, economic  
    viability of the City;" and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City Light Superintendent is part of the electric utility  
    industry; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City requires a competitive compensation program in order  
    to recruit, retain and motivate an effective utility leader to meet  
    the unique needs of the City Light Department, NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Establishing a Compensation Program.  As recommended by  
    the Personnel Director, there is hereby established a discretionary  
    pay program to be known as the City Light Superintendent Compensation  
    Program for the department head of the City Light Department.  
  
    A.  Establish Position Title: Position #00014135, Executive 4, is  
    hereby retitled to City Light Superintendent with no change in status,  
    effective July 1, 2003.  This title shall be used only for the  
    position which may be interchangeably referenced in other documents as  
    the Head of the City Light Department, Department Director for City  
    Light, Superintendent of Lighting, and City Light Department Head.  
  
    B.  Base pay:  Effective July 1, 2003 the City Light Superintendent  
    pay band is hereby established as specified:  
  
    Department     Title                    Salary Rate/hr  
    City Light         City Light Superintendent      $75.86 - $113.80  
  
    The appointing authority shall have the discretion to pay the  
    incumbent in this position a base salary anywhere within the band.  
  
    C.  Short Term Performance Award:  A lump sum payment of up to eight  
    percent (8%) of base salary, in addition to base salary, may be  
    awarded for recognition of the accomplishment of goals and work  
    outcomes at the completion of the annual evaluation period.  Any lump  
    sum payment made pursuant to this subsection shall be considered a  
    part of regular compensation prorated annually, for purposes of  
    withholding retirement contributions and calculating retirement  
    benefits for affected employees who are members of the Seattle City  
    Employees' Retirement System.  
  
    D.  Long Term Performance Award:  A lump sum payment of up to ten  
    percent (10%) of annualized base salary, in addition to base salary,  
    may be awarded for recognition of the accomplishment of strategic,  
    financial and operational goals of the utility at the end of the four  
    year evaluation cycle.  The long term performance award is also  
    dependent upon the City Light Superintendent's successful  
    reconfirmation by the City Council and/or successful continuation of  
    active employment beyond the four year evaluation cycle.  To receive  
    the payment, the employee must continue to be working in the position  
    and title of City Light Superintendent beyond the end of the  
    evaluation period.  Any lump sum payment made pursuant to this  
    subsection shall be considered a part of regular compensation prorated  
    for that year, for purposes of withholding retirement contributions  
    and calculating retirement benefits for affected employees who are  
    members of the Seattle City Employees' Retirement System.  
  
    E.  Relocation Expenses:  Should there be relocation costs incurred in  
    completing the selection process for a candidate in the national  
    electrical utility market that exceed the relocation costs authorized  
    in Ordinance #118324, the City Light Department is authorized to pay  
    reasonable and documented costs associated therewith from funds  
    accumulating in the budget of the City Light Department.  Should the  
    employee terminate employment before completion of twelve months of  
    service, or if the City terminates employment for cause, the  
    relocation expenses shall be reimbursed by the employee as specified  
    in Ordinance #118324.  
  
    F.  Early Separation Compensation:  The City Light Superintendent  
    serves at the pleasure of the Mayor and therefore may be separated  
    from his or her employment with the City at any time.  Should such  
    separation from employment occur before the re-confirmation process  
    provided for in SMC 3.08.010, the City shall provide severance  
    pay/early separation compensation according to the terms and  
    conditions in the written agreement between the City and the City  
    Light Superintendent.  The Mayor shall have the authority to enter  
    into such agreement on behalf of the City.  Severance pay/early  
    separation compensation shall not be provided if the City Light  
    Superintendent is separated from employment for cause, or if he or she  
    is re-confirmed to the position, following an initial four year term.  
  
    G.  The Personnel Director is authorized to develop and publish a plan  
    document consistent with the elements included in this ordinance.  
  
    H.  The Personnel Director shall review the pay band at least every  
    two years and recommend adjustments to the structure for approval by  
    the City Council.  
  
    Section 2.  The position incumbent and title of City Light  
    Superintendent are not eligible for any cost of living adjustments  
    which may be granted other non-represented positions.  
  
    Section 3.  The appointing authority shall have the power to make all  
    administrative decisions necessary to carry out the intent of this  
    ordinance.  
  
    Section 4.   The several provisions of this ordinance are declared to  
    be separate and severable and the invalidity of any clause, sentence,  
    paragraph, subdivision, section, or portion of this ordinance, or the  
    invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstance,  
    shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance or  
    the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances.  
  
    Section 5.  The heads of respective departments affected by this  
    ordinance are hereby authorized to use unexpended and unencumbered  
    funds accumulating in their respective budgets to pay the compensation  
    authorized herein.  
  
    Section 6.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 7.   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Norma McKinney/Nancy Schaefer  
  
    CL PayBand.doc  
  
    4/14/2003  
  
    Version #3  
