* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114586**   
**Ordinance Number: 121214**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of a lease agreement with Pottery Northwest, Inc., for use of space on the Seattle Center campus.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 14, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 22, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 21, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 9, 2003   
**Committee:** Parks, Education and Libraries   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK   
  
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-CENTER, LEASES  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114586.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114586  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing  
    execution of a lease agreement with Pottery Northwest, Inc., for use  
    of space on the Seattle Center campus.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  As requested by the Seattle Center Director and  
    recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director or her designee  
    is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a  
    lease agreement with Pottery Northwest, Inc., substantially in the  
    form of the agreement attached hereto and identified as "LEASE  
    AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND POTTERY NORTHWEST, INC."  
    (Attachment 1) under which, for a term of four and one-half years,  
    with an option to extend for three additional two-year terms, Pottery  
    Northwest, Inc., will lease space on the Seattle Center campus.  
  
      Section 2.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachment 1:  LEASE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND POTTERY  
    NORTHWEST, INC.  
  
    Ned Dunn/nd  
  
    Pottery Northwest Ordinance  
  
    May 21, 2003  
  
    version #1  
  
    ATTACHMENT 1:  LEASE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND POTTERY  
    NORTHWEST, INC.  
  
    LEASE AGREEMENT  
  
    BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND  
  
    POTTERY NORTHWEST, INC.  
  
    Table of Contents  
  
    1.  PREMISES                    1  
  
    2.  LEASE TERM                    2  
  
    3.  RENT                      2  
  
    4.  LATE CHARGE; INTEREST.                4  
  
    5.  WAIVER; INDEMNIFICATION                4  
  
    6.  INSURANCE                    5  
  
    7.  COVENANTS REGARDING OPERATION OF LESSEE'S BUSINESS      8  
  
    8.  UTILITY SERVICES                  9  
  
    9.  PARKING:                    10  
  
    10.  SIGNAGE, ADVERTISING & PUBLICITY              10  
  
    11.  MAINTENANCE, CLEANING & REPAIR              11  
  
    12.  CITY ACCESS TO, & INSPECTION, REPAIR & IMPROVEMENT OF PREMISES &  
  
      OTHER PROPERTY                                          12  
  
    13.  COMPLIANCE WITH LAW                13  
  
    14.  ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS              14  
  
    15.  CITY'S CONTROL OF BUILDINGS, GROUNDS & ACTIVITIES        16  
  
    16.  ASSIGNMENTS, SUBLEASES & OTHER INTEREST TRANSFERS      17  
  
    17.  EXCUSE & SUSPENSION OF OBLIGATIONS (FORCE MAJEURE)      18  
  
    18.  DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION                18  
  
    19.  DEFAULT & BREACH                  20  
  
    20.  REMEDIES CUMULATIVE                22  
  
    21.  SURRENDER OF PREMISES; HOLDING OVER            22  
  
    22.    NOTICES                    23  
  
    23.    NO RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED              24  
  
    24.  AUTHORITY OF "DIRECTOR"                24  
  
    25.  AMENDMENTS                    24  
  
    26.  NO WAIVER                    24  
  
    27.  USE OF LANGUAGE                  24  
  
    28.  CAPTIONS                    25  
  
    29.  INVALIDITY OF PARTICULAR PROVISIONS            25  
  
    30.  GOVERNING LAW & VENUE                25  
  
    31.  BINDING EFFECT                  25  
  
    32.  INSTALLATION OR INTEGRATION OF VISUAL ART WORKS PROHIBITED  
  
      WITHOUT DIRECTOR'S CONSENT                                      25  
  
    33.  ATTORNEYS FEES                  26  
  
    34.  ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF NEGOTIATED LEASE          26  
  
    35.  EXHIBITS                    27  
  
  
  
    Attachment 1  
  
  
  
  
    LEASE AGREEMENT  
  
    BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND  
  
    POTTERY NORTHWEST, INC.  
  
    THIS LEASE is entered into by THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("City"), a  
    municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting by and  
    through the Director of the Seattle Center Department ("Director"),  
    and POTTERY NORTHWEST, INC., ("Lessee"), a Washington non-profit  
    corporation.  
  
    In consideration of their mutual promises, the parties mutually agree  
    as follows:  
  
    1.  PREMISES  
  
      A.  Grant:  The City hereby leases to Lessee those certain  
    premises (the "Premises") consisting of approximately 10,800 square  
    feet, in a portion of the building located at 226 First Avenue North,  
    Seattle, WA, legally described as Lot Eleven (11), Block Thirty (30),  
    D. T. Denny's Plan of North Seattle, according to plat recorded in  
    Volume One of Plats, Page 41, Records of King County, Washington.  
  
    The site plan depicting the Premises is attached to this Lease as  
    Exhibit A.  
  
      B.  Condition:  City shall deliver and Lessee accepts the  
    Premises "AS IS." Tenant shall undertake no tenant improvements  
    without first obtaining written permission from the Director, whose  
    permission shall be given or withheld in her/his sole discretion.  
  
      C.  Permitted Use:  Lessee shall use the Premises only for the  
    following purposes:  
  
      (i)  to provide regular pottery classes open to the general public,  
    and presentations, workshops, master classes and the like by  
    regionally or nationally recognized potters;  
  
      (ii)  to provide a work-space for potters, including but not limited  
    to facilities and equipment for clay making, the wheel-throwing and  
    hand-building of pots and other clay objects, and the glazing and  
    firing of such objects, which facilities and equipment shall be  
    available for use by potters on a request basis; and  
  
      (iii)  to provide a gallery for the display and sale of pottery  
    objects,  
  
      D.  Assumption of Risk:  The placement and storage of personal  
    property in the Premises or any other Seattle Center facility shall be  
    the responsibility, and at the sole risk, of the Lessee.  
  
    2.  LEASE TERM  
  
      A.  Initial Term.  The Lease Term shall be four and 1/2 (4  
    1/2) years, (the "Initial Term") beginning on July 1, 2003, and ending  
    on December 31, 2007 (the "Expiration Date"), unless the Lease Term is  
    extended or sooner terminated as provided herein.  
  
      B.  Lessee's Opportunity to Extend the Lease Term.  Provided  
    at any time before of after notice is required under this Subsection  
    2.b. (i) Lessee has not defaulted in any of its obligations under the  
    Lease, or (ii) Lessee has defaulted but has cured all such defaults to  
    the satisfaction of the Director, this Lease Term may be extended  
    every two years for a total of three additional two (2)-year periods  
    (each two year period an "Extended Term") upon the terms and  
    conditions contained in the Lease.  In order to be eligible for any  
    Extended Term, Lessee must notify the City, in writing, of its desire  
    for an Extended Term not later than six (6) months prior to expiration  
    of the Initial Term and not later than six (6) months prior to  
    expiration of each Extended Term, if applicable.  
  
    3.  RENT  
  
      A.  Rent Defined:  
  
      Base Rent:  The Base Rent due the initial partial calendar  year  of  
    the Lease Term (i.e. July 1, 2003 - December 31, 2003) is $14,400.  
    The Base Rent due the first full calendar year of the Lease Term (i.e.  
    January 1, 2004 - December 31, 2004) is $28,800.  
  
    B. Additional Rent:  In years 2008, 2010, and 2012, Lessee shall pay  
    as "Additional Rent" the sum of $2,500.  
  
    C.  
  
    D. Adjusted Rent:  The Base Rent (with CPI adjustment) plus the  
    Additional Rent, if any is then due, shall be the "Adjusted Rent."  In  
    years where no Additional Rent is due, the Base Rent adjusted for CPI  
    shall also be called the "Adjusted Rent."  
  
    E.  
  
    F. CPI Increase:  The Base Rent and Adjusted Rent shall be increased  
    each January 1st commencing January 1, 2005, during the term hereof by  
    the percentage increase (if any) in the Consumer Price Index for All  
    Urban Consumers ("CPI-U" / 1982-84 = 100) Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton, WA  
    Area as published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor  
    Statistics or its successor, that occurred during the immediately  
    preceding calendar year; Provided, that in the event of a change in  
    the index base of (1982-84 = 100) or other modification of such index,  
    the City shall apply whatever conversion factors are necessary to  
    establish an adjusted CPI-U that produces the percentage increase in  
    the CPI-U for each such annual period that would have been produced  
    had no change been made in such index by its publisher; and in the  
    event such index is discontinued, the Director shall select and use  
    for such rent adjustment purpose a similar index that reflects  
    consumer price changes.  In no case shall the value of the annual CPI-  
    U percentage adjustment applied to Monthly Base Rent or Monthly  
    Adjusted Rent be less than zero (0).  
  
    G.  
  
      The following table illustrates the application of the CPI:  
  
    Column 1             Column 2            Column 3         Column 4  
  
    Contract     Previous        Multiplied by    Plus Add'l    Adjusted Rent  
      Year       Years           CPI               Rent      (Equals=column  
                 Adjusted Rent                                2 plus column  
                                                             3)(i.e. years  
                                                             "Total")  
  
    2003      $14,400         N/A           $0             $14,400  
  
    2004      $28,800 *      N/A            $0             $28,800  
  
    2005      2004 Total     $+             $0             $=  
  
    2006      2005 Total     $+             $0             $=  
  
    2007      2006 Total     $+             $0             $=  
  
    2008      2007 Total     $+             $2,500         $=  
  
    2009      2008 Total     $+             $0             $=  
  
    2010      2009 Total     $+             $2,500         $=  
  
    2011      2010 Total     $+             $0             $=  
  
    2012      2011 Total     $+             $2,500         $=  
  
    2013      2012 Total     $+             $0             $=  
  
    * In this one instance only, the number in Column 1 ($28,800) does not  
    represent the previous years Adjusted Rent because the previous "year"  
    of the Lease was a six month period.  
  
    ** If CPI is ever zero, ignore Column 2.; in any such instance  
    Adjusted Rent shall equal Column 1 plus Column 3.  
  
      To summarize, in order to determine Adjusted Rent due in any  
    particular year, the  
  
      Parties will  
  
    (1) take the amount in column 1,  
  
    (2)  
  
    (3) multiply it by the CPI index (such product would appear in column  
    2,  
  
    (4)  
  
    (5) add any Additional Rent due that year (see column 3) to arrive at  
    Adjusted Rent due.  
  
    (6)  
  
      C.  Lessee's opportunity to offset Base Rent with Services:  
    Twenty five percent (25%) of the annual Base and Adjusted Rent due  
    under this Lease shall be eligible for offset with services.  To be  
    eligible for the offset, Lessee must provide a service or services of  
    benefit to the City.  If Lessee desires to take advantage of this  
    opportunity in any given month, then Lessee must notify the Director  
    in writing as provided in Section 22, four weeks prior to the first of  
    the month in which the proposed offsetting services would be rendered.  
    Such notice shall list the proposed services to be rendered and the  
    proposed value of such services, supported by an itemized accounting  
    of time, labor rates, and materials, with corresponding dollar values.  
    The Director may propose an alternate valuation of the proposed  
    services.  The Director will make the final determination in his/her  
    sole discretion whether the City will accept or reject Lessee's  
    proposed services as an offset and will so notify Lessee in writing.  
    If accepted, the value of the services performed will be credited to  
    the next monthly payment due of Base Rent or Adjusted Rent after  
    Lessee has completed performance of the services.  
  
      D.  Time and Manner of Payment:  Lessee shall pay to City  
    without notice or demand, in lawful money of the United States (a)  
    one-twelfth (1/12th) of the annual  Rent due, Base Rent in year one  
    and Adjusted Rent thereafter, less any offset that has been approved  
    in writing by the Director, in advance of the first day of each month  
    and (b) any additional sums due, without offset, as and when specified  
    elsewhere in this Lease, but if not specified, then within ten (10)  
    days after demand.  
  
      If City notifies Lessee of the amount that the Rent is annually  
    increased for the CPI adjustment after Lessee has already made  
    payment(s) for the adjusted period(s), then Lessee shall remit the  
    difference owing and retroactively due within seven (7) days after the  
    date of the City's notice of the amount of each such annual increase.  
    Lessee shall thereafter pay the increased Adjusted Rent when due as  
    specified in this Lease.  
  
      E.  Place of Payment:  All payments shall be delivered to The  
    City of Seattle, Seattle Center Fiscal Services & Accounting, 305 West  
    Harrison Street, Seattle, Washington, 98109, or to such other address  
    as the Director shall specify by notice to Lessee.  
  
    4.  LATE CHARGE; INTEREST.  If Lessee fails to pay any Base Rent or  
    additional sums due under this Lease within five (5) days after the  
    due date, a service charge of Fifty Dollars ($50.00), or such larger  
    sum as may be established by ordinance, shall be assessed for each  
    month or portion of a month that the delinquency continues. Such  
    assessment(s) is/are immediately due and payable.  In addition,  
    interest on such delinquent amount(s) shall accrue at the rate of one  
    and one-half percent (1 1/2 %) per month from the date due until paid.  
    In the event any check for payment is returned for insufficient funds,  
    Lessee shall pay an administrative charge of $20.00.  If Lessee  
    defaults in making any payment of Base Rent or Adjusted Rent or other  
    sums due, City shall have the right to require that subsequent Base  
    Rent or Adjusted Rent or other sums payments be made by cashiers or  
    certified check.  
  
    5.  WAIVER; INDEMNIFICATION  
  
      A.  Lessee's Indemnification.  Except as otherwise provided in  
    this section, Lessee shall indemnify, defend (using legal counsel  
    acceptable to City) and save City, its officers, agents, and employees  
    harmless from any and all claims, suits, losses, damages, fines,  
    penalties, liabilities and expenses arising out of or in connection  
    with (i) Lessee's occupation, use or improvement of the Premises, or  
    that of any of its officers, employees, agents, invitees, licensees,  
    guests, or contractors, or (ii) Lessee's breach of its obligations  
    hereunder or violation of law, or  (iii) any act or omission of Lessee  
    or any subtenant, licensee, assignee, or concessionaire of Lessee, or  
    of any officer, agent, employee, guest, or invitee of any of the same  
    in or about the Premises.  Lessee agrees that the foregoing indemnity  
    specifically covers actions brought by its own employees. The  
    foregoing indemnity is specifically and expressly intended to  
    constitute a waiver of Lessee's immunity under Washington's Industrial  
    Insurance Act, RCW Title 51, as to the City only, and shall survive  
    the termination or expiration of this Lease.  Lessee shall promptly  
    notify City of casualties or accidents occurring in or about the  
    Premises.  CITY AND LESSEE ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE INDEMNIFICATION  
    PROVISIONS OF THIS LEASE WERE SPECIFICALLY NEGOTIATED AND AGREED UPON  
    BY THEM.  
  
      B.  Release of Claims.  Lessee hereby waives and releases all  
    claims against City for any losses or other damages sustained by  
    Lessee resulting from any accident or occurrence in or upon the  
    Premises, including but not limited to any defect in or failure of  
    building equipment; any failure to make repairs; any defect, failure,  
    surge in, or interruption of building facilities or services; broken  
    glass; water leakage; the collapse of any building component; or any  
    act or omission of any other occupants of the building.  
  
      C.  Limitation of Lessee's Indemnification.  In compliance  
    with RCW 4.24.115 as in effect on the date of this Lease, all  
    provisions of this Lease pursuant to which City or Lessee (the  
    "Indemnitor") agrees to indemnify the other (the "Indemnitee") against  
    liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or  
    damage to property relative to the construction, alteration, repair,  
    addition to, subtraction from, improvement to, or maintenance of, any  
    building, road, or other structure, project, development, or  
    improvement attached to real estate, including the building, (i) shall  
    not apply to damages caused by or resulting from the sole negligence  
    of the Indemnitee, its agents or employees, and (ii) to the extent  
    caused by or resulting from the concurrent negligence of (a) the  
    Indemnitee or the Indemnitee's agents or employees, and (b) the  
    Indemnitor or the Indemnitor's agents or employees, shall apply only  
    to the extent of the Indemnitor's negligence; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, the  
    limitations on indemnity set forth in this section shall automatically  
    and without further act by either City or Lessee be deemed amended so  
    as to remove any of the restrictions contained in this section no  
    longer required by then applicable law  
  
    6.  INSURANCE  
  
    The Lessee shall secure and maintain in full force and effect at all  
    times during the Term of this Lease, at no expense to City, a policy  
    or policies of insurance as enumerated below.  
  
      A.   A policy of Commercial General Liability Insurance,  
    written on an insurance industry standard occurrence form (CG 00 01)  
    or equivalent, including all the usual coverages known as:  
  
      -  Premises/Operations Liability  
  
      -  Products/Completed Operations  
  
      -  Personal/Advertising Injury  
  
      -  Contractual Liability  
  
      -  Independent Contractors Liability  
  
      -  Stop Gap/Employers Contingent Liability  
  
      -  Liquor Liability/Host Liquor Liability (as applicable)  
  
      -  Fire Damage Legal Liability  
  
      -  Elevator & Hoist Liability (as applicable)  
  
      Such policy (ies) must provide the following minimum limit:  
  
      Bodily Injury and Property Damage -  
  
        $ 2,000,000  General Aggregate  
  
        $ 2,000,000   Products & Completed Operations Aggregate  
  
        $ 1,000,000  Personal & Advertising Injury  
  
        $ 1,000,000  Each Occurrence  
  
        $    100,000  Fire Damage  
  
      Stop Gap Employers Liability  
  
        $ 1,000,000  Each Accident  
  
        $ 1,000,000  Disease - Policy Limit  
  
        $ 1,000,000  Disease - Each Employee  
  
    Any deductible or self-insured retention must be disclosed and is  
    subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager. The cost of any claim  
    payments falling within the deductible shall be the responsibility of  
    the Lessee.  
  
      B.  A policy of Business Automobile Liability if applicable,  
    including coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles  
    written on an insurance industry standard form (CA 00 01) or  
    equivalent.  
  
      Such policy (ies) must provide the following minimum limit:  
  
      Bodily Injury and Property Damage -  
  
        $ 1,000,000  Per Accident  
  
      C.  A policy of Worker's Compensation.  As respects Workers'  
    Compensation insurance in the state of Washington, the Lessee shall  
    secure its liability for industrial injury to its employees in  
    accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of  
    Washington. If the Lessee is qualified as a self-insurer in accordance  
    with Chapter 51.14 of the Revised Code of Washington, Lessee shall so  
    certify by providing a copy of the state Certificate of Self-  
    Insurance, and setting forth the limits of any policy of excess  
    insurance covering its employees.  
  
      D.  A policy of Property Insurance covering its furniture,  
    fixtures, equipment and inventory and all improvements which it makes  
    to the Premises in an amount equal to replacement cost thereof,  
    against (a) loss from the perils of fire, and other risks of direct  
    physical loss, not less broad than provided by the insurance industry  
    standard "Causes of Loss - Special Form (CP 10 30), (b) Loss or damage  
    from water damage, or sprinkler systems now or hereafter installed in  
    on the premises; (c) Loss or damage by explosion of steam boilers,  
    pressure vessels, oil or gasoline storage.  
  
      E.  Additional Insured and Changes of Coverage and Limits:  
    Such insurance, as provided under items (A), (B) and (D) above, shall  
    be endorsed to include the City, its officers, elected officials,  
    employees, agents and volunteers as additional insured, and shall not  
    be reduced or canceled without forty-five (45) days prior written  
    notice to the City.  In addition, Lessee's insurance shall be primary,  
    as respects the City, and any other insurance maintained by the City  
    shall be excess and not contributing insurance with the Lessee's  
    insurance.  
  
      F.   Coverage and/or limits may be altered or increased as  
    necessary, to reflect type of or exposure to risk. City shall have the  
    right to periodically review the appropriateness of such limits in  
    view of inflation and/or changing industry conditions and to require  
    an increase in such limits upon ninety (90) days prior written notice.  
  
      G.  Evidence of Insurance: The following documents must be  
    provided as evidence of insurance coverage:  
  
    *  A copy of the policy's declarations pages, showing the Insuring  
    Company, policy effective dates, limits of liability and the Schedule  
    of Forms and Endorsements.  
  
    *  A copy of the endorsement naming The City as an Additional Insured,  
    showing the policy number, and signed by an authorized representative  
    of the insurance company on Form CG2026 (ISO) or equivalent.  
  
    *  A copy of the "Endorsements Form List" to the policy or policies  
    showing endorsements issued on the policy, and including any company-  
    specific or manuscript endorsements.  
  
    *  A copy of an endorsement stating that the coverages provided by  
    this policy to the City or any other named insured shall not be  
    terminated, reduced or otherwise materially changed without providing  
    at least forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City.  
  
    *  A copy of A "Separation of Insureds" or "Severability of Interests"  
    clause, Indicating essentially that, except with respect to the limits  
    of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the  
    first named insured, this insurance applies as if each named insured  
    were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against  
    whom claim is made or suit is brought (Commercial General Liability &  
    Business Automobile Liability Insurance).  
  
      H.  All policies shall be subject to approval by the City's Risk  
    Manager as to company (must be rated A-: VII or higher in the A.M.  
    Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of  
    Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington Surplus lines  
    broker), form and coverage, and primary to all other insurance.  
  
      I.  If Lessee fails to maintain such insurance, City may do  
    so, and Lessee shall reimburse City for the full expense thereof upon  
    demand. Lessee shall not keep or use in or about the Premises any  
    article, which is prohibited by City's insurance policy.  Lessee shall  
    pay immediately any increase in City's premiums for insurance during  
    the term of this Lease that results from Lessee's use of the Premises.  
  
  
  
      J.  Waiver of Subrogation.  Neither City nor Lessee shall  
    be liable to the other party or to any insurance company (by way of  
    subrogation or otherwise) insuring the other party for any loss or  
    damage to any building, structure or tangible personal property of the  
    other occurring in or about the Premises or Building, even though such  
    loss or damage might have been occasioned by the negligence of such  
    party, its' agents or employees, if such loss or damage is covered by  
    insurance benefiting the party suffering such loss or damage or was  
    required under the terms of this Lease to be covered by insurance  
    procured by the party suffering the loss.  
  
      K.  Self-Insurance:  Should Lessee be self-insured, under  
    items (A) or (B) above, a letter from the Corporate Risk Manager, or  
    appropriate Finance Officer, is acceptable - stipulating if  
    actuarially funded and fund limits; plus any excess declaration pages  
    to meet the contract requirements.  Further, this letter should advise  
    how Lessee would protect and defend the City of Seattle as an  
    Additional Insured in their Self-Insured layer, and include claims  
    handling directions in the event of a claim.  
  
    7.  COVENANTS REGARDING OPERATION OF LESSEE'S BUSINESS  
  
      A.  Personnel:  Lessee shall employ courteous, competent, and  
    efficient help in such numbers, skills, and experience as to properly  
    conduct its activities on the Premises  
  
      B.  Business Name:  Lessee shall not change the name by which  
    it carries on its business without the written consent of the Director  
    whose consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.  
  
      C.  Fixtures, Furnishings, and Trade Equipment:  All fixtures,  
    furnishings, and trade equipment installed in the Gallery shall be of  
    high quality, of a modern type, and either new or completely  
    reconditioned.  
  
      D.  Schedule of Fees and Services:  Lessee shall at all times  
    conspicuously display at or near the main entrance to the Premises a  
    schedule of fees charged for services of Lessee, and if Lessee should  
    choose to alter its fees, such alteration shall be preceded by written  
    notice one week in advance of the effective date thereof to the  
    Director and notice conspicuously displayed to the public at or near  
    the main entrance of the Premises for at least one week prior to the  
    effective date of the charging of such fee or the variation thereof.  
  
      E.  No Nuisances or Objectionable Activity:  Lessee shall not  
    permit any noise, odor, dust, vibration or similar substance or  
    condition that the Director determines to be excessive or  
    objectionable, to remain on or be emitted from the Premises; shall not  
    interfere with access to or from the Premises or the Seattle Center or  
    any part thereof, or with the traffic thereon, or with any Seattle  
    Center facility, business, activity or utility on or off Seattle  
    Center grounds.  Lessee shall not create any nuisance in or adjacent  
    to the Premises and shall not do anything on the Premises that will  
    create a danger to life or limb.  
  
      F.  Fire Extinguisher Within Premises:  During the Initial  
    Term and Extended Terms(s), if any, the Lessee shall secure, maintain  
    and install in the Premises, in a prominent location, a 2A-10BC class  
    fire extinguisher or an alternative approved by the Fire Marshall, and  
    Lessee shall instruct all of its employees regarding its appropriate  
    use.  Such fire extinguisher shall be recharged not less than once a  
    year and immediately following any use.  
  
      G.  Objectionable Merchandise or Material:  Notwithstanding  
    any other provision of this Lease, the Lessee shall not display or  
    offer for sale or rent, or allow to be displayed or offered for sale  
    or rent, on the Premises, any merchandise or other material that the  
    Director, in the exercise of such official's sole discretion,  
    determines is unsafe; that portrays the City or Seattle Center or any  
    aspect thereof in an incorrect, misleading, or unfavorable manner;  
    that depicts or suggests in words, symbols, illustrations, or other  
    forms, any act of violence, or any lewd, immoral, or obscene activity;  
    that is inconsistent with the image of a first-class, family-oriented  
    retail and entertainment development, or is otherwise inappropriate  
    for a family-oriented recreation and entertainment facility such as  
    Seattle Center; or that may create a substantial litter or other  
    maintenance problem at Seattle Center.  
  
      H.  Core and Key Change: Lessee shall obtain from the City,  
    and pay in advance of delivery, the then current Seattle Center charge  
    for whatever number of lock cores, padlocks and keys are desired for  
    all doors in and to the Premises.  If Lessee returns to the City all  
    of the keys it obtained for the doors and padlocks on and to the  
    Premises upon the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease, the  
    City shall refund to Lessee all of the charges paid for such lock  
    cores and keys.  
  
      I.  Operation of gallery:  Lessee shall operate a gallery on  
    the premises for the display and sale of pottery objects.  The gallery  
    shall be furnished, equipped, and operated at no cost to the City.  
  
    8.  UTILITY SERVICES  
  
      A.  Extent of City Service:  The City shall provide water and  
    sewer service for the premises.  
  
      B.  Lessee's Responsibility:  The Lessee shall pay all charges  
    for light, heat, and other public utilities (other than water and  
    sewer), which shall be used in or charged against the Premises during  
    the Initial Term and Extended Term(s), if any.  The Lessee shall pay,  
    before delinquency, all fees and charges for the installation, change,  
    and relocation of any point or means of service by any utility or  
    waste line or system.  
  
      C.  Interruption:  The City shall not be liable for the  
    interruption of any utility service.  Such interruption of service  
    shall not constitute a constructive eviction and Lessee shall make no  
    claims therefore.  Lessee further covenants not to bring suit or make  
    any claim for damages allegedly arising from such interruption.  
  
      D.  Special Services and Facilities Subject to Prior Director's  
    Approval, and at Lessee's Cost:  Lessee, directly or through a  
    third party, may install, secure, maintain and repair, at no expense  
    to the City, any utility service related to Lessee's operations and  
    its use of the Premises that is not provided or maintained by the  
    City; however, any utility or waste disposal facility, item of  
    equipment, or service beyond that provided to the Premises by the  
    City, must be installed only in accordance with plans and  
    specifications approved by the Director and other appropriate City  
    officials, in writing, in advance of such installation.  Lessee shall  
    not install on the Premises any fixture, furnishing, or trade  
    equipment that exceeds the capacity of any utility or waste facility  
    for such location.  Lessee shall pay, before delinquency, all fees and  
    charges for the installation, change, and relocation of any point or  
    means of service by any utility or waste line or system.  Lessee shall  
    make arrangements with the utility service provider for the separate  
    metering, where possible, of such service and the direct billing to  
    the Lessee for the delivery of such service.  
  
    9.  PARKING:  
  
      As of the commencement date of this Lease, the Seattle Center has a  
    "Cooperative Parking Status" under Title 23 of the Seattle Municipal  
    Code.  Accordingly, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, the  
    City does not provide any parking that is specifically for or  
    associated with the Premises (including but not limited to that  
    required by or for Lessee's staff, suppliers or customers), and  
    whatever general, non-reserved parking the City makes available for  
    Seattle Center tenants and their respective staffs, suppliers, and  
    customers shall be shared on a first-come, first-served basis.  
  
    10.  SIGNAGE, ADVERTISING & PUBLICITY  
  
      A.  Prohibited Promotion & Other Material; Removal of Same:  
    Lessee shall not display, post, or distribute any sign, symbol,  
    advertising of any nature, or any printed material (including but not  
    limited to posters) on any part of the Seattle Center, including but  
    not limited to the Premises, except after receiving written approval  
    therefor from the Director, whose approval shall be given or withheld  
    in his/her sole discretion; and may undertake such activity only in or  
    on location(s) approved by the Director. On or before the expiration  
    or termination date of this Lease, whichever is earlier, or in the  
    case of unauthorized material, on or before the date specified in the  
    Director's notice to remove the same, Lessee shall remove, at no  
    expense to the City, all such signs, symbols, advertising and printed  
    material; and correct any unsightly condition, and repair any damage  
    or injury to City property caused by such signs, symbols, advertising  
    and printed material, and the removal thereof.   In the event any such  
    unauthorized material is not removed from City property by the date  
    required herein, such material may be treated as Lessee property  
    subject to removal and storage pursuant to Section 21 hereof.  
  
    Any approved signs or other advertising matter shall be in compliance  
    with all applicable laws, regulations and rules.  
  
      B.  Use of Photos & Similar Materials:  Each party hereto may  
    make photographs, video tapes, and motion pictures of the Premises and  
    the activity, people, displays and exhibits thereon; Provided, that in  
    the event such visual material is to be used for commercial  
    advertising purposes, prior to making the same, Lessee shall obtain  
    the written approval of the Director for such use, which approval may  
    be conditioned upon, among other things, the payment by the Lessee to  
    the City of additional consideration; and prior to the use of any such  
    photography, video tape, or motion picture, a written release shall be  
    obtained from every individual identifiable in the same.  
  
    11.  MAINTENANCE, CLEANING & REPAIR  
  
      A.  City Responsibilities:  The City shall maintain, clean and  
    repair the exterior and structural aspects of the Premises, but not  
    the interior areas of Premises.   The City's maintenance, cleaning and  
    repairing shall be to the ordinary standard of work performed on  
    other, major use facilities at Seattle Center, to keep the same in  
    good condition, normal wear and tear and damage and destruction by  
    fire or other extraordinary casualty excepted.  In connection  
    therewith, the City shall remove garbage and other refuse from  
    locations designated by the Director for such purpose, and repair  
    potable water, sewer, and storm water lines connecting with similar  
    lines on the Premises.  In undertaking such maintenance, the City  
    shall make a good faith effort to not unreasonably interfere with  
    Lessee's business on the Premises.  Lessee waives all claims for  
    damages, including for any loss of business, resulting from City  
    maintenance, cleaning and repair work except to the extent of City  
    gross negligence.  There shall be no abatement or reduction of rent  
    arising by reason of City's making of any repairs, alterations, or  
    improvements.  
  
      B.  Lessee's Responsibilities: Lessee, at its own cost and  
    expense, shall at all times keep the interior of the Premises,  
    including all of Lessee's improvements, alterations, and additions  
    thereto, and Lessee's personal property, in good repair and in a  
    serviceable and sanitary condition.  Notwithstanding Section 11.a.,  
    Lessee's responsibilities include repairing all damage done to the  
    Premises by Lessee or any of Lessee's officers, contractors, agents,  
    invitees, licensees or employees.   In carrying out Lessee's  
    responsibilities under this section, Lessee, among other things,  
    shall:  
  
    (1)  Clean the interior glass in the windows, doors, display cases,  
    and equipment on the Premises at least once a month, and replace any  
    such glass immediately if it should crack or break  
  
    (2)  Repaint all painted surfaces at least once every five (5) years,  
    and spot-paint any surface area that has become damaged immediately  
    after such condition has been discovered;  
  
    (3)  Keep all drainage pipes free and open;  
  
    (4)  Have all plumbing and plumbing fixtures inspected at least once  
    every quarter; repair all damage resulting from any plumbing fixture,  
    any equipment connected to plumbing, or pipe not installed in the  
    Premises by the City or caused by Lessee's failure to keep such  
    fixture or pipe in good operating condition; and in the event of any  
    failure by Lessee to satisfy this repair obligation within four (4)  
    hours after receipt of notice from the Director of any such damage,  
    the City reserves the right to undertake such repair, the cost of  
    which shall be reimbursed by the Lessee;  
  
    (5)  In a timely and careful manner, periodically remove all debris  
    generated by or peculiar to the Lessee's operations on the Premises  
    and place in an area designated by the Director;  
  
    (6)  Replace, from time to time, worn or irreparably damaged trade  
    equipment, furnishings and fixtures with other material, disposing of  
    the replaced item in accordance with the recycling requirements of  
    section 13.e.  
  
    In the event the Lessee fails to satisfy, in a timely manner after its  
    receipt of notice from the Director of the need for such work, any of  
    the obligations specified in this subsection, the City reserves the  
    right (but shall have no obligation) to undertake such work. City  
    shall have the right to enter the Premises for such purposes. In the  
    event the City undertakes such work for the Lessee pursuant to this  
    subsection, the Lessee shall promptly pay the City, upon receipt of a  
    written statement, the actual expenses incurred by the City in  
    undertaking such work (including but not limited to Seattle Center  
    labor and project management) plus an administrative charge of  
    $250.00.  
  
    12.  CITY ACCESS TO, & INSPECTION, REPAIR & IMPROVEMENT OF PREMISES &  
    OTHER PROPERTY  
  
      A.  Access to Premises:  The Lessee shall provide the City and  
    its contractors and consultants, their subcontractors, subconsultants  
    and agents with access to the Premises at all reasonable times to  
    inspect the same and to make any inspection, repair or improvement  
    deemed necessary by the Director, but this right of access shall not  
    impose on the City any obligation to make any repair, alteration,  
    addition, or improvement except as specifically provided herein.  
  
      B.  Permitted Interference With Lessee's Operations:  In  
    inspecting, and in making repairs, alterations, additions, and  
    improvements, the City may erect barricades and scaffolding in and  
    outside of the Premises, and may otherwise interfere with the conduct  
    of the Lessee's business and operations where such action is  
    reasonably required by the nature of the City's work; and such  
    interference shall not be deemed to be a breach or default under this  
    Lease.  
  
      C.  Suspension of Lessee's Operations and Obligation to Pay  
    Monthly Base Rent:  In the event such inspection, repair,  
    alteration, addition, or improvement work necessitates the temporary  
    suspension of Lessee's business or operations in, on, or from the  
    Premises, the Director shall notify the Lessee of such necessity and  
    the anticipated beginning and ending dates of such suspension.  
    Monthly Base or Adjusted Base Rent due to City pursuant to this Lease  
    shall be prorated during each month in which the Lessee's business or  
    operations are required by City to be suspended pursuant to this  
    section, and the Lessee shall have no obligation to pay such prorated  
    rent during the period that the Lessee's business or operations are  
    suspended; such cancellation of the obligation to pay the prorated  
    Monthly Base or Adjusted Base Rent shall constitute the totality of  
    relief available, and  Lessee waives all claims for damages and for  
    any injury to and interference with its operations or business and  
    losses occasioned by any such suspension.  
  
      D.  City's Retention & Use of Key to Premises:  Lessee shall  
    provide the Director with a key with which to unlock all of the doors  
    in, upon, and about the Premises, excluding Lessee's vaults, safes,  
    and files, for each of the aforesaid purposes.  The City shall have  
    the right to use any and all means that the Director deems proper to  
    open said doors in an emergency, in order to obtain entry to the  
    Premises, without liability to Lessee except for any failure to  
    exercise due care for Lessee's property.  Any entry to the Premises  
    obtained by the City by any of said means, or otherwise, shall not be  
    construed or deemed to be an eviction of Lessee or a forcible or  
    unlawful entry into, or a detainer of, the Premises or any portion  
    thereof.  
  
    13.  COMPLIANCE WITH LAW  
  
      A.  General Requirements:  Lessee, at no cost to the City,  
    shall perform and comply with all applicable, current and future laws  
    of the United States; the State of Washington; the Charter and  
    Municipal Code of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders,  
    and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers  
    thereof.  Lessee shall use its best efforts to ensure that every  
    person it admits to the Premises similarly performs and complies with  
    the same.  Whenever Lessee or its authorized representative is  
    informed of any violation of any such law, ordinance, rule,  
    regulation, license, permit, or authorization committed by it or any  
    person admitted to the Premises, Lessee shall immediately desist from  
    and/or prevent or correct such violation.  
  
      B.  Licenses, & Other Authorizations:  Lessee shall obtain and  
    maintain all required licenses, permits, and similar legal  
    authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof.  
  
      C.  Taxes:  The Lessee shall pay, before delinquency, all  
    taxes, levies, and assessments arising from its activities on or  
    occupancy of the Premises, including but not limited to taxes arising  
    out of the activity or business conducted on the Premises; taxes  
    levied on its property, equipment and improvements on the Premises;  
    and taxes on Lessee's interest in this Lease and any leasehold  
    interest deemed to have been created thereby under RCW Ch. 82.29A; and  
    in the event the State of Washington makes any demand upon the City  
    for payment of leasehold excise taxes resulting from the Lessee's  
    occupancy of the Premises or withholds funds due to the City to  
    enforce collections of leasehold excise taxes,  Lessee shall remit the  
    taxes demanded together with any interest and penalties associated  
    therewith or, at no expense to the City, contest such collection  
    action and indemnify the City for all sums expended by, or withheld by  
    the State of Washington from the City in connection with such  
    taxation.  
  
      D.   Nondiscrimination.  Lessee shall comply with all  
    applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of  
    the United States, the State of Washington, and the City of Seattle,  
    including the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), notably SMC 20.44, and  
    rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated  
    administrative agencies and their officers.  SMC 20.44.040 is  
    incorporated into this Lease by reference.  
  
      E.  Recycling of Waste Materials:  Lessee, at no cost to the  
    City, shall collect, sort and separate into such categories as may be  
    legally required, all solid waste products on the Premises, and  
    recycle all such products that are locally accepted for recycling.  
    Each separately sorted category of waste products shall be placed in  
    separate receptacles reasonably approved by the City, which  
    receptacles shall be dumped or removed from the Seattle Center at such  
    minimum frequency as is specified by the Director.  The City reserves  
    the right to refuse to collect or accept from Lessee any waste product  
    that is not sorted and separated as required by law, ordinance, rule  
    or regulation, and to require Lessee to arrange for the collection of  
    the same at Lessee's sole cost and expense using a contractor  
    satisfactory to the City.   Lessee shall pay all costs, fines,  
    penalties, and damages that may be imposed on City or Lessee as a  
    consequence of Lessee's failure to comply with the provisions of this  
    subsection.  
  
    14.  ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS  
  
      A.  Definitions:  For the purpose of this subsection, the  
    following terms shall be defined as provided below unless the context  
    clearly requires a different meaning:  
  
    (i)  "Laws or Regulation" shall mean any environmentally related  
    local, state or federal law, regulation, ordinance or order (including  
    without limitation any final order of any court of competent  
    jurisdiction of which Lessee has knowledge), now or hereafter in  
    effect including but not limited to the Clean Air Act, the Federal  
    Water Pollution Control Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Toxic  
    Substances Control Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response  
    Compensation and Liability Act as amended by the Superfund Amendments  
    and Re-authorization Act of 1986, the Resource Conservation and  
    Recovery Act as amended by the Solid and Hazardous Waste Amendments of  
    1984, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Emergency Planning  
    and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, and the Solid Waste Disposal  
    Act.  
  
    (ii)  "Hazardous Substances" shall mean any hazardous, toxic, or  
    dangerous substance, waste, or material that is regulated under any  
    federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, or regulation relating to  
    environmental protection, contamination or cleanup.  
  
      B.  Restrictions on Lessee Activities:   Lessee shall not  
    cause to occur upon the Premises or permit the Premises to be used to  
    generate, produce, manufacture, refine, transport, treat, store,  
    handle, dispose, transfer, or process Hazardous Substances except in  
    compliance with all applicable Laws and Regulations.   Lessee shall  
    provide the Director with the Lessee's USEPA Waste Generator Number  
    (if any), and with a copy of every Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS),  
    Generator Annual Dangerous Waste Report, environmentally related  
    regulatory permit or approval (including every revision or renewal  
    thereof) and any correspondence the Lessee receives from, or provides  
    to, any governmental unit or agency in connection with Lessee's  
    handling of Hazardous Substances or the presence, or possible  
    presence, of any Hazardous Substance on the Premises.  
  
      C.  Correction of Violations: If Lessee violates any of the  
    terms of this section concerning the presence or use of Hazardous  
    Substances or the handling or storing of hazardous wastes, Lessee  
    shall promptly take such action as is necessary to mitigate and  
    correct the violation.  If Lessee does not act in a prudent and prompt  
    manner, the City reserves the right, but not the obligation, to act in  
    place of Lessee (for which purpose Lessee hereby appoints the City as  
    its agent), to come onto the Premises and to take such action as the  
    City deems necessary to ensure compliance or to mitigate the  
    violation.  If the Director has a reasonable belief that Lessee is in  
    violation of any law or regulation, or that any action or inaction of  
    Lessee presents a threat of violation or a threat of damage to the  
    Premises, the City reserves the right to enter onto the Premises and  
    take such corrective or mitigating action as the Director deems  
    necessary.  All costs and expenses incurred by the City in connection  
    with any such action shall become immediately due and payable by  
    Lessee upon presentation of an invoice therefor.  
  
      D.  Testing:  Lessee shall provide the City with access to the  
    Premises to conduct an annual environmental inspection in January of  
    each year of the term hereof or at such other time(s) as may be  
    mutually agreed upon. In addition, Lessee shall permit the City access  
    to the Premises at any time, upon reasonable notice, for the purpose  
    of conducting environmental testing at the City's expense.   Lessee  
    shall not conduct or permit others to conduct environmental testing on  
    the Premises without first obtaining the Director's written consent,  
    which shall not be unreasonably withheld.   Lessee shall promptly  
    inform the Director of the existence of any environmental study,  
    evaluation, investigation or results of any environmental testing  
    conducted on the Premises whenever the same becomes known to Lessee,  
    and Lessee shall provide a written copy of the same to the Director  
    within thirty (30) days after the preparation of any such material.  
  
      E.  Removal of Hazardous Substances Prior to Vacation of Premises  
    :   Prior to vacation of the Premises, in addition to all other  
    requirements under this Lease, Lessee shall remove any Hazardous  
    Substances placed on the Premises during the term of this Lease or  
    Lessee's possession of the Premises, and shall demonstrate such  
    removal to the Director's reasonable satisfaction.  
  
      F.  Reimbursement of City Costs:  In addition to any remedy  
    provided above, the City shall be entitled to full reimbursement from  
    Lessee whenever the City incurs any cost resulting from Lessee's  
    violation of any of the terms of this section, including, but not  
    limited to, the cost of clean-up or any other remedial activity,  
    fines, penalties assessed directly against the City, injuries to third  
    persons or other property, and loss of revenue resulting from an  
    inability to re-lease or market the Premises due to its environmental  
    condition as the result of  Lessee's violation of the terms of this  
    Lease (even if such loss of revenue occurs after the expiration or  
    earlier termination of this Lease).  
  
      G.  Indemnification:  In addition to all other indemnities  
    provided in this Lease, and notwithstanding the expiration or earlier  
    termination of this Lease, Lessee agrees to and shall defend (using  
    legal counsel acceptable to the City), indemnify and hold the City  
    free and harmless from any and all claims, causes of action,  
    regulatory demands, liabilities, fines, penalties, losses, and  
    expenses, including without limitation cleanup or other remedial costs  
    (and including attorneys' fees, costs and all other reasonable  
    litigation expenses when incurred and whether incurred in defense of  
    actual litigation or in reasonable anticipation of litigation),  
    arising from the existence or discovery of any Hazardous Substance on  
    the Premises resulting from a violation of the terms of this section,  
    or the migration of any Hazardous Substance from the Premises to other  
    property or into the surrounding environment that is the result of a  
    violation of the terms of this section, whether (a) made, commenced or  
    incurred during the term of this Lease, or (b) made, commenced or  
    incurred after the expiration or termination of this Lease if arising  
    out of an event occurring during the term of this Lease.  
  
    15.  CITY'S CONTROL OF BUILDINGS, GROUNDS & ACTIVITIES  
  
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Lease, the City, without  
    liability of any kind, may:  
  
      A.  Physical Appearance:  Increase, reduce or change, in any  
    manner and any extent whatsoever, the number, appearance, dimensions,  
    and location of any and every Seattle Center walkway, landscaping  
    element, parking, service area, and building as desired by the City;  
  
      B.  Traffic & Parking Regulation:  Regulate all traffic within  
    and adjacent to the Seattle Center; and restrict or prohibit the  
    parking on City-owned or leased property of motor vehicles owned or  
    operated by Lessee or any of its officers, employees, agents,  
    suppliers, and invitees;  
  
      C.  Admission Charges:  Impose a reasonable charge for  
    admission to the Seattle Center and any of the facilities therein,  
    including parking facilities;  
  
      D.  Events:  Erect, display and remove promotional exhibits  
    and materials and permit special events on the Seattle Center grounds  
    and in or at any or every building and facility thereof;  
  
      E.  Rules & Regulations:  Promulgate, from time to time,  
    reasonable rules and regulations regarding the use and occupancy of  
    any area of Seattle Center;  
  
      F.  Hours of Operation:  Determine the days and hours that the  
    Seattle Center and the various business operations therein will be  
    open to the public;  
  
      G.  Other Businesses & Operations:  Change the size, number,  
    type and identity of other businesses and operations being conducted  
    or undertaken at Seattle Center; and authorize other lessees,  
    licensees, and the sponsors of special events at Seattle Center,  
    directly or indirectly, to offer for sale food and beverages, and for  
    sale or rent any merchandise and service, including any that may be  
    identical or similar to that offered by the Lessee;  
  
      H.  Signage:  Place "For Rent" or similar signs in the  
    Premises for thirty (30) days prior to the expiration or termination  
    date of this Lease, whichever is earlier.  
  
      I.  Interference:  Interfere with light, air or view, or the  
    Lessee's operations or use and occupancy of the Premises, either in  
    connection with or as a result of operations by or for City in the  
    construction of any public work or its subsequent use and occupancy,  
    or the repair and maintenance of any City facility or improvement.  
    The City will make a good faith effort, however, to minimize such  
    interference to the extent it is reasonably economical for the City to  
    do so.  
  
    16.  ASSIGNMENTS, SUBLEASES & OTHER INTEREST TRANSFERS  
  
      A.  Director's Prior Written Consent Required:  Lessee shall  
    not assign, mortgage, or encumber, or otherwise transfer this Lease or  
    sublet the whole or any part of the Premises without the prior written  
    consent of the Director, whose consent may be withheld in the  
    Director's sole discretion.  In no event shall an assignment,  
    sublease, or other transfer of the Lease relieve Lessee of any of its  
    obligations under this Lease.  Consent to any particular assignment,  
    subletting, or transfer shall not operate as a waiver of the necessity  
    for consent to any subsequent assignment, subletting or transfer.  
  
      B.  Transferee's Obligations; Documentation:   As a condition  
    of the Director's approval of an assignment or transfer, any potential  
    assignee or transferee otherwise acceptable to the Director shall  
    assume, in writing, all of Lessee's obligations under the Lease; and  
    Lessee and such assignee or transferee, shall agree, in writing, to be  
    jointly and severally liable for the performance of all of Lessee's  
    obligations under this Lease.  As a condition of the Director's  
    approval of any sublessee otherwise acceptable to the Director, such  
    sublessee shall assume, in writing, all of Lessee's obligations under  
    this Lease as to the subleased portion of the Premises; and Lessee and  
    such sublessee shall agree, in writing, to be jointly and severally  
    liable with Lessee for rent and performance of all of the terms,  
    covenants, and conditions of such approved sublease.  Lessee and any  
    assignee, sublessee, or transferee shall remain jointly and severally  
    liable regardless of any (i) agreement that modifies any of the rights  
    or obligations of the parties to this Lease; (ii) stipulation that  
    extends the time within which an obligation under this Lease is to be  
    performed; (iii) waiver of the performance of any obligation under  
    this Lease; or (iv) failure to enforce any obligation under this  
    Lease.  
  
      Every proposed sublease, assignment, or other interest-transferring  
    agreement shall be submitted to the Director for review and approval  
    or disapproval after execution by the proposed subtenant, assignee, or  
    other transferee, and not less than fourteen (14) calendar days prior  
    to the commencement date of the proposed sublessee's, assignee's, or  
    transferee's intended use of any portion of the Premises under such  
    agreement or the assumption of any right or interest in any portion of  
    the Premises or this Lease.  Every sublease shall require the  
    sublessee to submit to the Director and Lessee not more than ten (10)  
    days after the end of each month during the term of its sublease and  
    the month after the expiration or earlier termination of such  
    sublease, a written statement identifying the amount of gross receipts  
    generated by such sublessee on and from the portion of the Premises  
    used and occupied by such sublessee during the immediately preceding  
    month.  
  
      C.  Change of Lessee's Organizational Structure or Ownership  
    Constitutes Assignment:  If Lessee is a corporation, the merger,  
    consolidation, or liquidation of the Lessee or any change in the  
    ownership of or power to vote thirty-three and one-third percent  
    (331/3) or more of its capital stock, as held as of the date of  
    execution of this Lease, shall be deemed an assignment.  
  
      D.  Lessee's Authorization to Use Premises Constitutes Assignment  
    or Sublease:  If Lessee in any manner permits anyone to occupy all  
    or any portion of the premises for any purpose including but not  
    limited to the conduct of any business or other activity, whether or  
    not business-related, not within the intent of this Lease or any  
    sublease, such permission shall be deemed an assignment or sublease,  
    as deemed appropriate by the Director.  
  
    17.  EXCUSE & SUSPENSION OF OBLIGATIONS (FORCE MAJEURE)  
  
      If a party's performance (other than any monetary obligations) under  
    this Lease is prevented by an unforeseeable act of nature; war or war-  
    like operations; civil commotion; riot; labor dispute including a  
    strike, lockout, or walkout; sabotage; Federal or State regulation or  
    control; or other condition beyond the reasonable control of such  
    party, then performance of such affected obligation shall be suspended  
    (excluding, however, any monetary obligations), but only for the  
    duration of such condition.  The existence of more than one (1) such  
    condition on a given day shall result in only a one (1) day extension.  
  
    18.  DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION  
  
      A.  Report of Damage or Destruction:  The Lessee shall submit  
    a written report to the Director, in care of the Contracts and  
    Concessions Office, regarding the circumstances of any damage to the  
    Premises or any of the Tenant's improvements thereto, within twenty-  
    four (24) hours after its discovery.[SC1]  
  
      B.  Rent Obligation in Event of Damage or Destruction:  In the  
    event the Premises are destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty  
    not occasioned by an act or omission of the Lessee or any of its  
    officers, employees, contractors, agents, invitees, or guests, and  
    such destruction or damage is so extensive as to render such Premises  
    and improvements unusable (either because of the need to rebuild or to  
    clean and refurbish the same) and the Lessee has given timely notice  
    of such destruction or damage as provided by this section,  Lessee's  
    obligation to pay rent shall be abated until the date that such  
    Premises and improvements are made usable or should have been made  
    usable had the Lessee diligently prosecuted such repair, rebuilding,  
    and restoration work.  The unusability of the Premises and the  
    duration of any such rent abatement shall be reasonably determined by  
    the Director and confirmed by one or more notices to  Lessee.   In the  
    event only a portion of the Premises is damaged or destroyed by fire  
    or other casualty not occasioned by an act or omission of Lessee or  
    any of its officers, employees, contractors, agents, invitees, or  
    guests but the remainder of such Premises and improvements remains  
    usable, as reasonably determined by the Director, and  Lessee has  
    given timely notice of such destruction or damage as provided by this  
    section,  Lessee shall pay a reduced amount of rent that is  
  
    proportionate to the extent of the Premises that remains usable for  
    the purposes identified in Section I hereof, which reduced rent amount  
    shall be reasonably determined by the Director and identified by  
    notice to  Lessee, and paid by  Lessee through the date reasonably  
    specified by the Director in such notice or the later date specified  
    in any subsequent notice.[SC2]  
  
      C.  Rebuilding, Repair & Restoration:  In the event that  
    insurance proceeds payable to the City will provide sufficient funds  
    to enable the City to rebuild, repair and restore the Premises after  
    their damage or destruction, and neither Lessee nor the City elects to  
    terminate this Lease pursuant to this section, the City shall  
    diligently prosecute such rebuilding, repair, and restoration.  
    Lessee shall replace or repair in a timely manner and at no cost or  
    expense to the City, all damaged or destroyed personal property that,  
    prior to such damage or destruction, had been located on the Premises,  
    and all improvements that  Lessee made to the Premises, unless  
    otherwise permitted by the Director.    Upon the rebuilding, repair  
    and reconstruction of the Premises, Lessee shall immediately re-occupy  
    the whole of the Premises.   The rent abatement or reduction provided  
    pursuant to this section shall be discontinued and the full Base Rent  
    and Adjusted Rent and additional sums specified in or pursuant to this  
    Lease shall again be due and payable from and after the date specified  
    in the notice given by the Director.   The City shall not be liable to  
    Lessee for damages, compensation or any other sum for inconvenience,  
    loss of business, or disruption arising from any repair to or  
    restoration of any portion of the Premises or the Building in which  
    the Premises are located.[SC3]  
  
      D.  Termination Rights in Event of Damage or Destruction:  
  
  
  
    By Lessee:  Notwithstanding any other provision in this Lease to  
    the contrary, in the event that fifty percent (50%) or more of the  
    Premises is damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty not  
    occasioned by an act or omission of Lessee, its officers, employees,  
    contractors, agents, invitees, or guests, Lessee may terminate this  
    Lease by providing notice thereof to the Director  
  
    By City:  Notwithstanding any other provision in this Lease to  
    the contrary, in the event that fifty percent (50%) of the Premises is  
    destroyed or is so damaged by fire or other casualty as to be  
    untenantable or unusable, or if the City desires to discontinue  
    Lessee's operations because of substantial destruction of the Premises  
    or other part of Seattle Center, regardless of whether the Premises  
    are destroyed, damaged, or otherwise, the City may terminate this  
    Lease by providing prior written notice thereof to  Lessee.  
  
  
  
    Notice of Termination:  Any notice of termination pursuant to this  
    section shall be provided within sixty (60) days after the occurrence  
    of the damage or destruction and shall specify the effective date of  
    such termination.  
  
    19.  DEFAULT & BREACH  
  
      A.   Definition:  If Lessee violates or breaches or fails to  
    keep or perform any covenant, term or condition of this Lease, or if  
    Lessee files or is the subject of a petition in bankruptcy, or if a  
    trustee or receiver is appointed for Lessee's assets or if Lessee  
    makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or if Lessee is  
    adjudicated insolvent, Lessee shall be deemed in default hereunder (a  
    "Default").  
  
      B.    City's Notice of Default & Breach: If Lessee is in  
    Default, City shall provide written notice to Lessee, specifying the  
    nature of the Default, the reasonable number of days (but not more  
    than thirty (30) days) after the date of the notice within which such  
    Default must be cured to avoid termination, and the City's intention  
    to terminate this Lease if the Default is not corrected within such  
    stated period.  
  
      C.   Remedies:  If Lessee fails to cure any Default within the  
    time specified in the Director's notice, the City may thereafter  
    terminate this Lease without any further proceedings, re-enter the  
    Premises, lease and license others to use said Premises during any  
    portion of the period of use remaining under this Lease had it not  
    been terminated, and receive rent, additional rent and license fees  
    and other sums therefore; Provided, that notwithstanding such  
    termination and/or re-entry, Lessee's liability for the rent and any  
    other sums due under the Lease to be paid to the City hereunder shall  
    not be extinguished, and Lessee shall pay to the City the difference  
    between said rent and any other sums due under the Lease and the sum  
    the City receives (if any) for the use of the Premises by one or more  
    other users during the period beginning on the date Lessee's rights  
    under this Lease are terminated and ending on the scheduled expiration  
    date of this Lease.  Such payment shall be made monthly, within  
    fifteen (15) days after the date of the City's invoice to Lessee.  
    Lessee's liability for rent and any other sums due pursuant to this  
    Section shall be subject to the late fees and interest provided for in  
    Section 4 of this Lease.  Lessee shall also be liable for and shall  
    reimburse City for any other amount necessary to compensate City for  
    all the detriment proximately caused by Lessee's failure to perform  
    its obligations under this Lease, including but not limited to, any  
    costs or expenses incurred by City in retaking possession of the  
    Premises, maintaining or preserving the Premises after such Default,  
    preparing the Premises for reletting to a new tenant, including  
    repairs or alterations to the Premises for such reletting, leasing  
    commissions, and any other costs necessary or appropriate to relet the  
    Premises, and such other amounts in addition to or in lieu of the  
    foregoing as may be permitted from time to time by the laws of the  
    State of Washington. If the City re-enters the Premises, City shall  
    have the right, but not the obligation, to remove therefrom all or any  
    part of the personal property located therein and may place the same  
    in storage at a public warehouse at the expense and risk of Lessee.  
  
      D.  Adequate Security:  If a petition is filed by or against  
    Lessee under any provision of the Bankruptcy Code or successor act,  
    City reserves the right to require Lessee to post a cash bond with  
    City equal to six (6) months' Base Rent and additional sums to provide  
    City with adequate security for Lessee's performance of its  
    obligations under this Lease.  
  
      E.  Criteria for Substitute Tenant:  The City's obligation to  
    mitigate damages after a default by Lessee under this Lease that  
    results in the City's regaining possession of all or part of the  
    Premises shall be satisfied in full if the City undertakes to lease  
    the Premises to another tenant (a "Substitute Tenant") in accordance  
    with the following criteria:  
  
      (1)  The City shall have no obligation to solicit or entertain  
    negotiations with any other prospective tenants for the Premises until  
    the City obtains full and complete possession of the Premises  
    including, without limitation, the final and unappealable legal right  
    to re-let the Premises free of any claim of Lessee.  
  
      (2)  The City shall not be obligated to offer the Premises to any  
    prospective tenant when other Premises on the Seattle Center suitable  
    for that prospective tenant's use are currently available, or will be  
    available within the next three months.  
  
      (3)  The City shall not be obligated to lease the Premises to a  
    Substitute Tenant for a rental less than the current fair market  
    rental then prevailing for similar comparable facilities in the same  
    market area as the Seattle Center.  
  
      (4)  The City shall not be obligated to enter into a new lease under  
    terms and conditions that are unacceptable to the City under the  
    City's then current leasing policies for comparable space at the  
    Seattle Center.  
  
      (5)  The City shall not be obligated to enter into a lease with any  
    proposed Substitute Tenant that does not have in the Director's  
    reasonable opinion, sufficient financial resource or operating  
    experience. The City shall not be required to expend any amount of  
    money to alter, remodel, or otherwise make the Premises suitable for  
    use by a Substitute Tenant unless:  
  
    (a)  Lessee pays any such sum to the City in advance of the City's  
    execution of a lease with such Substitute Tenant (which payment shall  
    not be in lieu of any damages or other sums to which the City may be  
    entitled to as a result of Lessee's default under this Lease); or  
  
    (b)  The City, in the Director's sole discretion, determines that any  
    such expenditure is financially justified in connection with entering  
    into any lease with such Substitute Tenant.  
  
    The City shall not be obligated to enter into a lease with any  
    Substitute Tenant whose use would:  
  
    (c) Disrupt the tenant mix or balance of the Seattle Center;  
  
    (d)  
  
    (e) Violate any restriction, covenant, or requirements contained in  
    the lease of another tenant of the Seattle Center;  
  
    (f)  
  
    (e)  Adversely affect the reputation of the Seattle Center;  
  
    (f)  Be incompatible with the operation of the Seattle Center as a  
    first-class event and cultural community gathering center.  
  
      F.  Default by City:  The City shall not be in default of any  
    obligation to perform under this Lease unless the City fails to  
    perform such obligation within a reasonable time, which time shall not  
    extend more than thirty (30) days after written notice by the Lessee  
    to the Director specifying the particular obligation that the City has  
    failed to perform; Provided, however, that if the nature of the City's  
    obligation is such that more than thirty (30) days are required for  
    performance, then the City shall not be in default if the City  
    commences performance within such thirty (30) day period and  
    thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion.  
  
    20.  REMEDIES CUMULATIVE  
  
      Rights under this Lease are cumulative; failure to exercise on any  
    occasion any right shall not operate to forfeit such right on another  
    occasion.  Each party shall also have any other remedy given by the  
    law.  The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the  
    right to use another.  
  
    21.  SURRENDER OF PREMISES; HOLDING OVER  
  
      A.  Surrender & Delivery:  Upon the expiration or termination  
    date of this Lease, whichever is earlier, Lessee shall surrender the  
    Premises in a broom clean condition, reasonable wear and tear  
    excepted.   Lessee shall promptly deliver to the Director all keys  
    Lessee, and any of its officers, agents, and employees have to the  
    Premises or any other part of the Seattle Center.  Immediately  
    following the vacating of the Premises and the surrender of the same  
    to the City, a representative of the Lessee shall inspect the Premises  
    with the Director to determine the condition of the Premises.  The  
    results of such inspection shall be summarized by the Director on a  
    Premises inspection report, a copy of which shall be provided to  
    Lessee.  If the Director determines that Lessee has failed to  
    surrender the Premises in a broom clean condition the Director shall  
    have the right to restore the Premises to a broom clean condition at  
    the expense of Lessee.  Lessee shall reimburse the City for its costs  
    therefor, including any administrative costs.  
  
      B.  Removal of Lessee's Property:  Prior to the expiration  
    date of this Lease, or in the event this Lease is terminated, within  
    fifteen (15) days after the termination date, whichever is earlier,  
    Lessee shall remove, at its sole expense, all trade equipment and  
    personal property owned or installed by Lessee in, on, or from the  
    Premises, unless the Director agrees in writing that any requested  
    items may stay.    Lessee shall take due care to not injure or damage  
    the Premises, and shall make such repairs to the Premises as shall be  
    necessary to restore the same to their condition as of the  
    commencement date of this Lease, ordinary wear and tear and  
    improvements, additions, and alterations, approved by the City  
    excepted.  
  
      C.  Storage of Lessee's Property:  In the event Lessee fails  
    to remove trade equipment and personal property owned or installed by  
    Lessee by the expiration date or sooner termination date, the City  
    may, but shall not be required to remove such material from the  
    Premises and store the same, all at Lessee's expense; and in the event  
    the City removes or arranges for the storage of such material, Lessee  
    shall reimburse the City for its costs therefor, including any  
    restoration and administrative costs.  
  
      D.  Hold-over Use & Occupancy of Premises:  In the event  
    Lessee, with the Director's consent, holds over after the expiration  
    or sooner termination of the Lease Term, the resulting use and  
    occupancy shall be on a monthly basis, during which time Lessee shall  
    be bound by all of the provisions of this Lease other than the amount  
    of the monthly Adjusted Rent, which amount shall be the greater of the  
    amount charged for the month immediately preceding the expiration or  
    termination date, whichever is earlier, or the fair market value for  
    the Premises.  If, however, Lessee holds over without the Director's  
    consent, after the expiration or sooner termination of the Lease Term,  
    whether by failing to remove its trade equipment or personal property  
    or otherwise, Lessee shall pay to the City, as damages twice the  
    amount of (a) the Rent and additional sums due the month prior to  
    expiration or sooner termination of the Lease Term or (b) the fair  
    market rent and additional sums due the month prior to expiration or  
    sooner termination, whichever is higher, and shall be bound by all of  
    the other provisions of this Lease. If Lessee fails to surrender the  
    Premises upon the expiration or sooner termination of this Lease  
    without the Director's consent, Lessee shall indemnify, defend, and  
    hold harmless the City from all losses, damages, liabilities, and  
    expenses resulting from such failure, including without limiting the  
    generality of the foregoing, any claims made by any succeeding tenant  
    arising out of such failure.  
  
      E.  No Claim for Removal:  In no event shall Lessee make any  
    claim or demand upon the City nor shall the City be liable for any  
    inconvenience, annoyance, disturbance, or loss of business or any  
    other damage suffered by the Lessee arising out of removal operations  
    under Subsections 21 (b) and (c) hereof.  
  
    22.    NOTICES  
  
      All notices from either party to the other shall be in writing and  
    delivered or mailed, postage prepaid, to the intended recipient at the  
    address specified on the signature page of this Lease, or to such  
    other address as may be specified, from time to time, by either party,  
    by notice to the other party.  
  
    23.    NO RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED  
  
      The City shall in no event be construed to be a partner, associate,  
    or joint venturer of the Lessee, or any party associated with the  
    Lessee.  The Lessee is not an agent of City for any purpose  
    whatsoever.  The Lessee shall not create any obligation or  
    responsibility on behalf of the City or bind the City in any manner.  
  
    24.  AUTHORITY OF "DIRECTOR"  
  
       No action of the Director pursuant to or in implementation of this  
    Lease shall constitute any official action by any other City  
    department or official that may be required by law, ordinance, rule or  
    regulation before Lessee may rightfully commence, suspend, enlarge, or  
    terminate any particular undertaking or may obtain or exercise any  
    particular right or privilege under this Lease.  Any approval, consent  
    or permission required of the Director by this Lease may be granted,  
    conditioned or withheld by the Director in the exercise of such  
    official's sole discretion.  
  
    25.  AMENDMENTS  
  
      No modification or amendment of the terms hereof shall be effective  
    unless in writing and signed by authorized representative of each of  
    the parties hereto.  
  
    26.  NO WAIVER  
  
      Nothing other than a written document signed by the Director  and  
    specifically declaring a City intent to waive a particular breach or  
    default by Lessee shall constitute a waiver of such breach or default.  
    No such document shall waive Lessee's failure to fully comply with any  
    term or condition of this Lease not specifically referenced therein,  
    irrespective of any knowledge any City officer or employee may have of  
    such breach, default, or noncompliance. No waiver by either party  
    shall be construed to be, or operate as, a waiver of any subsequent  
    default in full performance of any provision of this Lease.  The  
    payment or acceptance of any Rent, other sums due, or other  
    compensation, whether after a default or from a sublessee or assignee,  
    shall not be deemed to constitute consent to or acceptance of such  
    default or acceptance of defective or incomplete performance in the  
    future or any such subtenancy or assignment.  
  
    27.  USE OF LANGUAGE  
  
      Terms used in the neuter gender include the masculine and feminine;  
    and terms used in the singular or plural include the other, as the  
    context may require.  
  
    28.  CAPTIONS  
  
      The titles of sections are for convenience only and do not define or  
    limit the contents.  
  
    29.  INVALIDITY OF PARTICULAR PROVISIONS  
  
      Should any term, provision, condition, or other portion of this  
    Lease or the application thereof be held to be inoperative, invalid or  
    unenforceable, the remainder of this Lease or the application of such  
    term or provision to person or circumstances other than those to which  
    it is held invalid or unenforceable shall not be affected hereby and  
    shall continue in full force and effect.  
  
    30.  GOVERNING LAW & VENUE  
  
      This Lease shall be interpreted and construed using Washington Law.  
    The venue for any action under this Lease shall be in the Superior  
    Court of the State of Washington for King County.  
  
    31.  BINDING EFFECT  
  
      The provision, covenants, and conditions contained in this Lease  
    apply to bind the parties, their legal heirs, representatives,  
    successors, and assigns.  
  
    32.  INSTALLATION OR INTEGRATION OF VISUAL ART WORKS PROHIBITED  
    WITHOUT DIRECTOR'S CONSENT  
  
      A.  The City reserves to and for itself the right to approve or  
    disapprove of the installation or integration on or in the Premises of  
    any "work of visual art," as that term is defined in the Visual  
    Artists Rights Act of 1990, as now existing or as later amended, and  
    to approve or disapprove of each and every agreement regarding any  
    such installation or integration.   Lessee shall not install on or  
    integrate into, or permit any other person or entity to install on or  
    integrate into, the Premises any such work of visual art without the  
    prior, express, written consent of the Director.   The Director's  
    consent to the installation of any such art work may be granted,  
    granted upon one or more conditions, or withheld in the Director's  
    discretion; Provided, however, that Director's consent to the  
    installation by or for Lessee of any such art work shall not be  
    required under the following three (3) circumstances:  
  
      (1)  If such art work (a) weighs less than fifty (50) pounds; and  
     (b) is of a size and has such dimensions and material composition  
    that makes its passage through an open 32" x 78" or larger doorway a  
    simple and easy maneuver; and (c) is to be installed on the  
    floor, a piece of furniture, or similar surface without further  
    anchoring of any kind or nature, or on a wall using no more than two  
    (2) simple picture hooks and wire; all so that the easy removability  
    from the Premises of such art work without its destruction,  
    distortion, mutilation or other modification by reason of such removal  
    is undeniable; or  
  
      (2)   If Lessee delivers to City a waiver appropriately executed by  
    the art work creator, for the benefit of the City and its successors  
    and assigns as the owner of the Premises, of the creator's right of  
    integrity regarding such art work, in a form of waiver that satisfies  
    both City and the requirements of 17 U.S.C. section106A(e), as the  
    same now exists or is hereafter modified; or  
  
      (3)   If the City executes with the creator of a work of visual art  
    to be installed in the Premises a consent agreement of the type  
    contemplated by 17 U.S.C. section113(d)(1), as the same now exists or  
    is hereafter amended, and in the form and manner specified by City.  
  
      B.  In the event the creator of any work of visual art installed in  
    the Premises by or for Lessee has not executed a waiver, or such  
    creator and the City have not executed a consent agreement, each as  
    described herein, Lessee shall ensure that, prior to removing or  
    allowing the removal from the Premises of any such art work, such  
    creator is given both notice, as contemplated in 17 U.S.C.  
    section113(d)(2), of the intended removal of such art work, and the  
    time required by that statutory provision to respond to such notice,  
    and that Lessee takes whatever other action(s) may be required by such  
    legislation to ensure that no claim, action or suit alleging a  
    violation of the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, as now existing or  
    hereafter amended, and arising out of any act or omission of or for  
    Lessee or any of its officers, employees, or agents, is filed or  
    lodged against the City in its capacity as the Premises owner.  
  
      C.  Lessee's Indemnification of the City Against Liability under  
    Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990.  Lessee shall protect,  
    defend, and hold the City harmless from and against any and all  
    claims, suits, actions or causes of action, damages and expenses  
    (including attorneys' fees and costs) arising as a consequence of (a)  
    the installation or integration of any work of visual art on or into  
    the Premises; (b) the destruction, distortion, mutilation or other  
    modification of the art work that results by reason of its removal; or  
    (c) any breach of this section; or (d) any violation of the Visual  
    Artists Rights Act of 1990, as now existing or hereafter amended; by  
    Lessee or any of its officers, employees or agents.   This  
    indemnification obligation shall exist regardless of whether the City  
    or any other person employed by the City has knowledge of such  
    installation, integration, or removal or has consented to any such  
    action or is not required to give prior consent to any such action.  
    The indemnification obligation of this subsection shall survive the  
    expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.  
  
    33.  ATTORNEYS FEES  
  
      If an action is brought to enforce the terms of the Lease, each  
    party agrees to bear its own attorneys' fees and costs.  
  
    34.  ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF NEGOTIATED LEASE  
  
      The parties to this Lease acknowledge that it is a negotiated lease,  
    that they have had the opportunity to have the Lease reviewed by their  
    respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this  
    Lease are not to e construed against any party on the basis of such  
    party's draftsmanship thereof.  
  
    35.  EXHIBITS  
  
    The following exhibits are made a part of this Lease:  
  
        Exhibit A:  Premises Floor Plan/Map  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this instrument  
    the day and year indicated below:  
  
    LESSEE:  
  
    LESSOR:  
  
    POTTERY NORTHWEST  
  
    THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    By ______________________________  
  
    By ______________________________  
  
    Jean Griffith, President  
  
         Virginia Anderson, Director  
  
    Board of Directors  
  
         Seattle Center Department  
  
    BUSINESS ADDRESSES FOR NOTICES  
  
    LESSEE:  
  
    LESSOR:  
  
    Director  
  
    Manager, Contracts & Concessions  
  
    Pottery Northwest  
  
    Seattle Center Department  
  
    226 First Avenue N  
  
    305 Harrison, Room 322  
  
    Seattle, WA  98109  
  
    Seattle, WA 98109  
  
    PHONE NO.:  206 285-4421  
  
    PHONE NO.:  206-684-7114  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON)  
  
              ) Ss (Acknowledgment for Lessee, Pottery Northwest)  
  
    COUNTY OF KING)  
  
      On this _______day of ______________________________, 20____, before  
    me, a Notary Public in and for the State of  
    ____________________________, duly commissioned and sworn, personally  
    appeared  
  
    Jean Griffith, to me known to be the President of POTTERY NORTHWEST  
    Board of Directors, the entity that executed the foregoing Lease as  
    Lessee; and acknowledged to me that she signed the same as the free  
    and voluntary act and deed for said entity, for the uses and purposes  
    therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to  
    execute said instrument for said entity.  
  
    I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that the person  
    appearing before me and making this acknowledgement is the person  
    whose true signature appears on this document.  
  
      WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL the day and year in this  
    certificate above written.  
  
    ____________________________________________  
  
    Signature  
  
    ____________________________________________  
  
    (Print or Type Name)  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,  
  
    Residing at  
  
    My commission expires:  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON)  
  
              ) Ss (Acknowledgment for Lessor, City of Seattle)  
  
    COUNTY OF KING)  
  
      On this _______day of ______________________________, 20____, before  
    me, a Notary Public in and for the State of  
    ____________________________, duly commissioned and sworn, personally  
    appeared  
  
    Virginia Anderson, to me known to be the Seattle Center Director of  
    the CITY OF SEATTLE, the corporation that executed the foregoing Lease  
    as Lessor; and acknowledged to me that she signed the same as the free  
    and voluntary act and deed for said entity, for the the purposes  
    therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to  
    execute said instrument for said entity.  
  
    I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that the person  
    appearing before me and making this acknowledgement is the person  
    whose true signature appears on this document.  
  
      WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL the day and year in this  
    certificate above written.  
  
    ____________________________________________  
  
    Signature  
  
    ____________________________________________  
  
    (Print or Type Name)  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,  
  
    Residing at  
  
    My commission expires:  
  
    Page: 25  
  
    [SC1]6/3/98  
  
    Page: 26  
  
    [SC2]6/3/98  
  
    Page: 26  
  
    [SC3]6/3/98  
  
    Pottery Northwest Agreement   May 14, 2003  
  
      i  
  
    Pottery Northwest Agreement   May 14, 2003  
  
      3  
