* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114569**   
**Ordinance Number: 121177**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to City employment, to be known as the First Quarter 2003 Salary Ordinance; designating two positions as exempt from civil service; abrogating a position in the Department of Parks and Recreation; amending the 2003 Position List to correct inadvertent errors in listing some positions; and acknowledging the elimination, effective January 1, 2003, of numerous vacant positions in the Department of Parks and Recreation associated with the Woodland Park Zoo; all by a 2/3 vote of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 9, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 12, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
**Note:** First Quarter 2003 Salary Ordinance  
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 19, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** CITY-EMPLOYEES, WAGES-AND-SALARIES  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114569.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114569  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to City employment, to be known as the First  
    Quarter 2003 Salary Ordinance; designating two positions as exempt  
    from civil service; abrogating a position in the Department of Parks  
    and Recreation; amending the 2003 Position List to correct inadvertent  
    errors in listing some positions; and acknowledging the elimination,  
    effective January 1, 2003, of numerous vacant positions in the  
    Department of Parks and Recreation associated with the Woodland Park  
    Zoo; all by a 2/3 vote of the City Council.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
      Section 1.  DESIGNATING POSITIONS AS EXEMPT FROM CIVIL SERVICE.  As  
    recommended by the Personnel Director in the Classification  
    Determinations specified below, two positions are hereby designated as  
    exempt from civil service effective as noted in the respective  
    reports:  
  
      Position #00019316 in the Personnel Department designated Strategic  
    Advisor 1, Exempt (Report #03-6572).  
  
      Position #00022552 in the Seattle Department of Transportation  
    designated Manager 3, Exempt (Report #03-6479).  
  
      Section 2.  ABROGATING A POSITION.  As requested by the Finance  
    Director, the following vacant position associated with the Woodland  
    Park Zoo is abrogated effective 12/31/2002.  
  
      Position #00015485 in the Department of Parks and Recreation:  
    Accounting Technician I-BU.  
  
      Section 3.  AMENDING THE 2003 POSITION LIST.  To correct inadvertent  
    errors in position titles in the 2003 Position List adopted by  
    Ordinance 121012, the following titles are hereby approved to replace  
    the original titles for the positions indicated.  
  
    Department  Corrected Title of Position   Original Title in     Position  
                                                            Position List   F/P Number  
  
    Executive           Mgmt Systems Analyst,Sr  Mgmt Systems     F      00015682  
    Administration                               Analyst, Asst  
  
    Executive           Warehouser,Sr-BU         Warehouser, Sr    F                                                                                            00015924  
    Administration  
  
    Parks & Recreation  Admin Support Asst-BU    Rec Attendant     F                                                                                          00025368  
  
    Parks & Recreation  Admin Support Asst-BU    Rec Attendant     F                                                                                          00025369  
  
    Parks & Recreation  Warehouser-BU            Warehouser        P                                                                                            10001558  
  
    Personnel           Personnel Analyst,Sr     Personnel Spec, Sr F                                                                                         10002356  
  
    Seattle Municipal   Admin Staff Asst         Admin Spec III,    F                                                                                           10002374  
    Court               (subject to              Exempt  
                        Classification  
                        Determination)  
  
    Seattle Police      Admin Staff Asst         Admin Spec II-BU    F                                                                                          00022965  
  
    Seattle Public      Forest Maint CC          Forest Operations   F                                                                                          00026794  
    Utilities                                    Crew Chief  
  
    Seattle Public      Maint Laborer            Construction &      F                                                                                          00008239  
    Utilities                                    Maintenance  
                                                 Equipment Operator  
  
    Seattle Public      Maint Laborer            Drainage &          F                                                                                          00020649  
    Utilities                                    Wastewater  
                                                 Collection Workers  
  
    Seattle Public      Maint Laborer            Heavy Truck Driver   F                                                                                         00021112  
    Utilities  
  
    Seattle Public      StratAdvsr2,Engrng &     StratAdvsr2          F                                                                                         10002392  
    Utilities           Plans Rev  
  
      Section 4.  The City acknowledges the elimination, effective January  
    1, 2003, of the positions listed in Attachment A to this ordinance,  
    which are the positions in the Department of Parks and Recreation  
    associated with the Woodland Park Zoo that were legally eliminated by  
    Subsection 3f of Ordinance 121012, passed December 2, 2002.  These are  
    the positions that were vacant on December 31, 2002, and were listed  
    in C.F. 305495 as being in the Woodland Park Zoo Budget Control Level.  
  
      Section 5.  Any act consistent with this authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 6.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all the members of the City  
    Council the _____ day of _______________, 2003, and signed by me in  
    open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of  
    _______________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this _____ day of_______________, 2003.  
  
    ___________________________________  
  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
  
    ___________________________________  
  
     City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachment A: Positions in the Department of Parks and Recreation  
    associated with the Woodland Park Zoo that were vacant December 31,  
    2002, and therefore were eliminated by Ordinance 121012.  
  
    Norma McKinney/Nancy Schaefer  
  
    1Q03  
  
    042203  
  
    Version #3  
  
    - 1 -  
