* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114595**   
**Ordinance Number: 121245**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) Section 23.61.008 to correct provisions of the Station Area Overlay District.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 11, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Licata, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 19, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 19, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 16, 2003   
**Committee:** Land Use   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, PLATS, ZONING, NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS, COMPREHENSIVE-PLAN, WAREHOUSES, STORAGE-BUILDINGS  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 120609  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114595.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114595  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Seattle  
    Municipal Code (SMC) Section 23.61.008 to correct provisions of the  
    Station Area Overlay District.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Section 23.61.008 of the Seattle Municipal Code, last  
    amended by Ordinance 120609, is further amended as follows:  
  
    23.61.008  Prohibited Uses.  
  
    The following uses are prohibited within an underlying commercial  
    zone as both principal and accessory uses, except as otherwise noted:  
  
    A.  Drive-in businesses;  
  
    B.  Dry storage of boats;  
  
    C.  General manufacturing;  
  
    D.  Heavy commercial services, except laundry facilities existing as  
    of April 1, 2001;  
  
    E.  Sales and rental of large boats;  
  
    F.  Vessel repair (major or minor);  
  
    G.  Mini-warehouse;  
  
    H.  Principal use, nonresidential long-term parking;  
  
    I.  Outdoor storage;  
  
    J.  Sale of heating fuel;  
  
    K.  Sales and rental of motorized vehicles, except within an enclosed  
    structure;  
  
    L.  Sales, service and rental of commercial equipment and  
    construction materials;  
  
    M  Salvage and recycling;  
  
    N.  Towing services;  
  
    O.  Principal use vVehicle repair (major or minor);  
  
    P.  Wholesale showroom; and  
  
    Q.  Mini-warehouse; and  
  
    R  Warehouse.  
  
    Section 2.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Mike Podowski/MP  
  
    Saod or1.doc  
  
    March 11, 2003  
  
    version #1  
