* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114546**   
**Ordinance Number: 121148**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE related to cable television; replacing the franchise district map currently on file with the City Clerk with a new map that renames some of the cable districts and modifies the boundaries of the Central Cable Television Franchise District; amending Section 21.60.210 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and granting authority to Comcast to maintain certain cable communications facilities within the boundaries of the Central Cable Television Franchise District.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 12, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: Nicastro)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 22, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 22, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 28, 2003   
**Committee:** Police, Fire, Court and Technology   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON   
  
**Index Terms:** TELECOMMUNICATIONS, CABLE-TELEVISION, FRANCHISES  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 117956  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114546.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114546  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE related to cable television; replacing the franchise  
    district map currently on file with the City Clerk with a new map that  
    renames some of the cable districts and modifies the  boundaries of  
    the Central Cable Television Franchise District;  amending Section  
    21.60.210 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and granting authority to  
    Comcast to maintain certain cable communications facilities within the  
    boundaries of the Central Cable Television Franchise District.  
  
    WHEREAS, Comcast of Washington IV, Inc. currently provides cable  
    services in Cable Franchise Districts One (I) and Two (II) in  
    accordance with a franchise agreement authorized by Ordinance No.  
    117956 as amended; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Comcast of Washington I, Inc. currently provides cable  
    services in Cable Franchise District Three (III) on the same terms and  
    conditions contained in Ordinance No. 117956, in accordance with a  
    Memorandum of Understanding dated September 27, 1995; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Comcast of Washington IV, Inc. and Comcast of Washington I,  
    Inc. are both wholly owned by Comcast Cable Communications Holdings,  
    Inc. and are together also known as Comcast; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Millennium Digital Media (MDM) Inc. provides cable service in  
    Seattle to subscribers in the Central Cable Television Franchise  
    District (CAFD) in accordance with a franchise agreement authorized by  
    Ordinance No. 118361, and in Cable Franchise District One (I) in  
    accordance with a franchise agreement authorized by Ordinance No.  
    117955; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the franchise district map referenced in SMC.21.60.210 and  
    currently on file with the City Clerk contains certain errors relating  
    to the boundaries of the CAFD; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Comcast, MDM and the City wish the map on record of the  
    respective franchises to accurately represent the actual franchise  
    boundaries of the CAFD; and  
  
    WHEREAS, after consultation with Comcast and MDM, both parties have  
    agreed in writing that the map attached hereto as Exhibit 1 accurately  
    reflects the actual franchise district boundaries, including the  
    boundaries of the CAFD; and  
  
    WHEREAS, MDM and Comcast have agreed to observe all of their  
    respective rights and obligations within each of their franchise  
    districts; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the franchise district map referenced in SMC.21.60.210 and  
    currently on file with the City Clerk contains outdated designations  
    of some of the Cable Districts; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City wants to correct these outdated designations by  
    changing the designations to non-cable company-specific designations;  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, Comcast has installed certain cable communications facilities  
    within the CAFD as defined by Exhibit 1 of this Ordinance and seeks  
    the City's authority to maintain such facilities in the CAFD for the  
    purposes of providing services to its subscribers outside the CAFD;  
    Now Therefore,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
      Section 1.  The Central Cable Television Franchise District is shown  
    in the "Cable District Map," which is attached as Exhibit 1 to this  
    Ordinance.  
  
    Section 2.  SMC 21.60.210A is amended to read as follows:  
  
    A.  Cable districts  boundaries and designations shall be as  
    depicted on Exhibit (("A ")) "1" - "CABLE DISTRICTS"  
  
    attached to the Ordinance introduced as Council Bill ________.  
    ((Ordinance 105427.  
  
      Section 3.  The changing of the designations for the Cable Districts  
    made in Section 2 of this ordinance is a name change only and does not  
    affect any other right or obligation of the City or cable franchisee  
    with respect to any Cable District.  
  
      Section 4.  The Mayor or his designee is authorized to execute  
    amendments to Comcast and Millennium Digital Media Inc.'s respective  
    cable franchise agreements to change their franchise districts to  
    those depicted in the Cable District Map (Exhibit 1).  
  
      Section 4.  As of the effective date of this Ordinance, Comcast is  
    hereby granted authority to maintain in place those certain cable  
    communications facilities within the Central Cable Television  
    Franchise District (CAFD) which are used solely for the purpose of  
    providing cable services to Comcast subscribers residing outside the  
    boundaries of the CAFD as delineated by the Cable District Map  
    (Exhibit 1).  
  
      Section 5.  Nothing in this Ordinance shall preclude Comcast from  
    providing services to subscribers in the CAFD if it is granted a  
    franchise for the CAFD, or a citywide franchise.  
  
      Section 6.  Any acts consistent with and prior to the effective date  
    of this Ordinance, are hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 7.  This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Exhibit 1: Cable District Map]  
  
    Tony Perez  
  
    DoIT Cable Television Map ORD  
  
    April 16, 2003  
  
    Version 8  
  
    Exhibit 1: Cable District Map  
