* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114530**   
**Ordinance Number: 121128**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Fire Department; accepting funds from non-City sources; increasing the appropriation in the 2003 budget of the Fire Department and the Department of Information Technology; and creating positions in the Fire Department; all by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 21, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Conlin, Wills)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 2, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 1, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
**Note:** Laidlaw Medical Transportation, Inc., American Medical Response  
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 14, 2003   
**Committee:** Police, Fire, Courts and Technology   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON   
  
**Index Terms:** CONTRACTS, FIRE-DEPARTMENT, EMERGENCY-VEHICLES, EMERGENCY-HEALTH-SERVICES, EMERGENCY-SERVICES. ACCOUNTING  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114530.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114530  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Fire Department; accepting funds from  
    non-City sources; increasing the appropriation in the 2003 budget of  
    the Fire Department and the Department of Information Technology; and  
    creating positions in the Fire Department; all by a two-thirds vote of  
    the City Council.  
  
    WHEREAS, the Mayor and City Council authorized the Fire Department to  
    develop and issue a Request For Proposals to provide ambulance  
    services for Basic Life Support patients; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Laidlaw Medical Transportation, Inc. d/b/a American Medical  
    Response ("AMR") submitted what was subsequently evaluated as the  
    proposal of choice; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City, through the Seattle Fire Department, has entered  
    into an agreement with AMR (the "Agreement") under which AMR has  
    provided the City with $250,000 with which to make capital  
    improvements to the Fire Department's computer aided dispatch system  
    and will provide the City with $360,000 annually throughout the life  
    of the Agreement to offset the City's costs to administer the  
    Agreement;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The City hereby accepts funds that have been or will be  
    received from Laidlaw Medical Transport, Inc. d/b/a American Medical  
    Response ("AMR") pursuant to the Agreement.  The Two Hundred Fifty  
    Thousand Dollars ($250,000) of those funds already received shall be  
    deposited in the Department of Information Technology Operating Fund  
    (50410) to support the Seattle Fire Department Computer Assisted  
    Dispatch (SFDCAD) capital improvement project.  When received, Three  
    Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($360,000) shall be deposited each year  
    in the General Subfund (00100).  
  
    Section 2.  The appropriations for the following in the 2003 Budget  
    are increased from the funds shown, as follows:  
  
    Dept.     Fund     Budget Control Level             Amount  
    Fire     00100     F10 Resource Management          258,885  
    Fire     00100     F30 Operations                   101,115  
    DoIT     50410     D3 Technology Infrastructure     250,000  
  
    Section 3. To implement financial and performance oversight  
    associated with the Agreement, the following 3.0 full-time positions  
    are added to the Fire Department:  
  
        Two Firefighter-Dispatchers-84 Hrs. (2.0 FTEs)  
        Contract Administrator (1.0 FTE)  (Position Classification TBD)  
  
    Section 4.  The positions created in Section 3 of this ordinance will  
    continue only so long as funding therefor is available from payments  
    made pursuant to the Agreement.  
  
    Section 5.  Any acts consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 6.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by a three-fourths(3/4) vote of all the members of the City  
    Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed by me in open  
    session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________,  
    2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    4/15/03  
    version #6  
    T  
