* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114510**   
**Ordinance Number: 121116**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 4.88, Service Award Program, authorizing the Personnel Director to establish and administer a City Service Award Program and providing for departmental service award programs.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 7, 2003   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: McIver, Pageler, Wills)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 17, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 24, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** CITY-EMPLOYEES, PERSONNEL-ADMINISTRATION, AWARDS-AND-TESTIMONIALS  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Amends: Ord 81698  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114510.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114510  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 4.88, Service  
    Award Program, authorizing the Personnel Director to establish and  
    administer a City Service Award Program and providing for departmental  
    service award programs.  
  
    WHEREAS, the Mayor and the City Council recognize the value of  
    employees' service to the City and its citizens; and  
  
    WHEREAS, it is desirable to acknowledge and commend long-term service;  
    NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.88.010, Program Adopted,  
    Ordinance 81698 as amended, is hereby retitled and further amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 4.88.010  Program adoptedRecognition of Service.  
  
    The City further adopts the following program of awards in  
    recognition of service by officers and employees of the City,  
    including those in the Library Department subject to the approval of  
  
    the Library Board, in accordance with the following rules and  
    regulations:  
  
    A.  Service Recognized. To be eligible for an award an officer or  
    employee must have completed a minimum of five (5) years' service or a  
    multiple thereof, up to and including forty-five (45) years.  
    City Service Award Program. The Personnel Director is authorized to  
    establish and administer a City Service Award Program for recognition  
    of completion of continuous service in the amounts of twenty (20),  
    twenty-five (25), thirty (30), thirty-five (35), forty (40), forty-  
    five (45) and fifty (50) years. Eligible employees shall receive an  
    award, inscribed with the Mayor's signature, in a formal presentation  
    at an appropriate venue. Service recognition for fifty (50) years  
    and beyond is to be recognized by special action of the Mayor and  
    the City Council but not inconsistent with the general plan  
    provided for in this chapter. Length of service is to be  
    determined by the Personnel Director. Funding for the City  
    service awards shall be included in each department's biennial budget.  
  
  
  
    B. Awards.Department Service Award Program. Beginning  
    with the fifth (5th) anniversary of an employee's most recent  
    appointment to City service, and upon completion of each five (5) year  
    increment of continuous service thereafter, each department may  
    present to eligible employees, in an appropriate ceremony, an official  
     Theaward shallconsisting of an emblem of  
    the City of Seattle Seal with the years-of-service numerically  
    represented upon it. The emblem may be presented as a lapel pin,  
    tie clasp, tie tack, or bracelet charm. The award shall be of gold  
    plate and the years-of-service colors shall be green for five (5), ten  
    (10), and fifteen (15), black for twenty (20) and twenty-five (25),  
    blue for thirty (30), thirty-five (35), and forty (40), and purple for  
    forty-five (45) and fifty (50) years. In addition to such service  
    emblem those with twenty-five (25), thirty (30), thirty-five (35),  
    forty (40), forty-five (45) and fifty (50) years' service shall be  
    awarded an appropriately worded certificate showing the full period of  
    service, signed by the Mayor and the President of the City Council and  
    certified by the Personnel Director. In conjunction with the  
    presentation of awards and certificates recognizing employees with  
    twenty-five (25) or more years of service, each department may also  
    present individualized awards to such employees. Such awards shall not  
    exceed the cost of the service award itself and shall be consistent  
    with the provisions of this ordinance and the administrative rules of  
    the program. The purchase, storage, and distribution of awards and  
    certificates to the departments shall be the responsibility of the  
    Department of Executive Administration.The departmental  
    service award program is in addition to and shall not substitute for  
    the City service award program. Funding for the departmental service  
    awards must be included in each department's biennial budget.  
  
    C.  Service Award Lists. The Personnel Director shall annually  
    prepare and furnish a list of employees eligible to receive service  
    awards in the upcoming year to each City department not later than  
    sixty (60) days prior to the end of each year.The Personnel  
    Director shall be solely responsible for the determination of an  
    employee's length of continuous service based on official personnel  
    and payroll records.  
  
    D.  Presentation. The departments shall present the service  
    awards at departmental ceremonies scheduled for this purpose or in  
    conjunction with other departmental employee recognition ceremonies  
    and programs. The Mayor and Council President shall be invited to  
    attend ceremonies honoring employees with twenty-five (25) years or  
    more of service.  
  
    E.  Certificates of Retirement. Those officers and employees who  
    retire because of age or service shall be awarded an appropriately  
    worded certificate showing the full number of years of  
  
  
    service, signed by the Mayor, President of the City Council, and the  
    Personnel Director.  
  
    Section 2.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.88.020, Administration,  
    Ordinance 81698 as amended, is hereby repealed.  
  
    Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Norma McKinney/tc  
  
    SMC488010.doc  
  
    February 24, 2003  
  
    version #1  
