* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114532**   
**Ordinance Number: 121172**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE extending the eligible register for the Fire Lieutenant promotional examination to be established on August 15, 2004, and amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.04.040, Subsection C, to incorporate the terms of a court order relative to certification of candidates for Police and Fire promotional exams.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 9, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 12, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 14, 2003   
**Committee:** Police, Fire, Courts and Technology   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON   
  
**Index Terms:** FIRE-DEPARTMENT, CITY-EMPLOYEES  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 107790  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114532.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114532  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE extending the eligible register for the Fire Lieutenant  
    promotional examination to be established on August 15, 2004, and  
    amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.04.040, Subsection C, to  
    incorporate the terms of a court order relative to certification of  
    candidates for Police and Fire promotional exams.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Notwithstanding the provisions of SMC 4.04.040  
    Subsection C2, the eligible register for the Fire Lieutenant  
    promotional examination that is scheduled to be posted on August 15,  
    2004 shall remain in effect until August 15, 2007.  
  
    Section 2.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.04.040  
    (Administration), Subsection C, Ordinance 107790 as amended, is hereby  
    further amended as follows:  
  
      C.  With respect to employees of the Public Safety Civil Service  
    system enumerated in SMC  4.08.060 , the duties of the Director  
    include:  
  
      1.  Classify, for purposes of examination, all positions covered by  
    said system. No appointments, promotions or transfers shall be made to  
    or from positions covered by said system except as provided in SMC  
    Chapters  4.04.040  C and 4.08.  
  
      2.  Prepare and administer examinations, which shall be graded and  
    open to all who meet appropriate job-related qualifications; provided  
    that the Director may, by rule, designate other methods of examination  
    based on merit when in the Director's judgment graded examination is  
    not practicable. Such examinations may include tests of physical  
    fitness and/or manual skill. The Director shall superintend and keep a  
    record of all examinations. The Director may designate a suitable  
    number of persons to be examiners to conduct such examinations. The  
    Director shall charge a nonrefundable application fee of Twenty-five  
    Dollars ($25) for entry-level firefighter and police officer  
    applicants. The Director shall waive this fee for indigent applicants  
    upon submission by the applicant of a declaration of indigency.  
  
      Examinations for all classes shall be timely prepared and  
    administered by the Director so as to provide at all times current  
    registers for all classifications. Eligible registers shall remain in  
    effect for a time determined by the Director: provided, that no  
    eligible register shall remain in effect for more than two (2) years.  
  
      3.  Provide notice of the time and place and general scope of every  
    examination to be held by publication in the City official newspaper  
    not less than ten (10) days preceding such examination, and for  
    promotional exams by posting in the Public Safety Civil Service  
    Commission office and in Police and Fire Department offices for not  
    less than ninety (90) days, and by other notice deemed reasonable or  
    necessary by the Director.  
  
      4.  Keep a record of all examinations held under his/her direction.  
  
      5.  Prepare a register for each class of positions in this system  
    from the returns or reports of the examiners of the persons whose  
    standing upon examination for such class is not less than the minimum  
    established by the Director. Persons, when graded, shall take rank  
    upon the register as candidates in the order of their relative  
    excellence as determined by competitive examination. Veteran's  
    preference in examination and appointment shall be granted as required  
    by federal and state law including RCW 41.08.040 and  41.12.040:  
    provided a person shall be entitled to use such preference only once  
    to successfully attain an appointment or promotion to a position.  
  
      6.  When a vacant entry level position is to be filled, certify to  
    the appointing authority the names of candidates in the top twenty-  
    five (25) percent of the eligible register, or the top five (5)  
    candidates, whichever number is larger, subject to any current  
    affirmative action requirements. Where more than one (1) position in a  
    class is to be filled, certify one (1) additional name of the person  
    standing next highest on the register for each additional position.  
    When a vacant position is to be filled through promotion, certify to  
    the appointing authority the names of the top five (5) candidates from  
    the appropriate promotional register. When more than one (1) vacancy  
    is to be filled from a promotional register, certify one (1)  
    additional name of the person standing next highest on the register  
    for each additional position.  The appointing authority shall fill such  
    positions by appointment only from the persons certified by the  
    Director.  
  
      If there are no registers for a class, authorize temporary,  
    provisional appointment to the vacant position. A provisional  
    appointment shall not continue for a period longer than four (4)  
    months, and no person shall receive more than one (1) provisional  
    appointment or serve more than four (4) months as provisional  
    appointee in any twelve (12) month period.  
  
      7.  Adopt suitable rules for examination, classification,  
    eligibility, preparation of registers, certification and appointments.  
    Such rules may be amended, modified or rescinded from time to time,  
    and all rules and amendments thereof shall be printed for free public  
    distribution.  
  
      8.  Comply with the applicable portions of the Rules of Practice and  
    Procedure of the Public Safety Civil Service Commission in effect on  
    January 1, 2002, until such time as the Personnel Director adopts  
    rules to carry out the new duties assigned pursuant to SMC Section  
    4.08.020.  
  
      9.  Comply with the procedures regarding the promotions of police  
    officers and sergeants set forth in the effective collective  
    bargaining agreement between the City and the exclusive bargaining  
    agent of such employees, as approved by ordinance, to the extent such  
    procedures are inconsistent with the terms of this ordinance as  
    codified in this chapter, the rules adopted by the Director, or the  
    rules of the Public Safety Civil Service Commission.  
  
    Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    April 4, 2003  
    version #3a  
