* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114558**   
**Ordinance Number: 121153**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and ordering the  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 12, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 22, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 22, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 12, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** FINANCE  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and  
    ordering the  
  
    payment thereof.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    SECTION 1.  Payment of the sum of Twelve Million, Twenty Two Thousand,  
    Eight Hundred Twenty Eight and 00/100 dollars ($12,022,828.00) on  
    Summit mechanical warrants numbered, 4000674263- 4000676972, plus  
    manual or cancellation issues for claims, plus Electronic Financial  
    Transactions (EFT) of Fifty Eight Million, One Hundred Fourteen  
    Thousand, Seven Hundred Forty Nine and 09/100 dollars ($58,114,749.09)  
    are presented for ratification by the City Council per Chapter 42.23  
    RCA.  
  
     SECTION 2. That any act consistent with the authority and prior to  
    the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    SECTION 3. This ordinance, being an ordinance required for the payment  
    of salaries or current expenses, shall take effect and be in force  
    immediately upon its approval, if approved by the Mayor; otherwise it  
    shall take effect at the time it shall become a law under the  
    provisions of the City Charter.  
  
    Passed by the City Council on the 12th day of May. 2003 and signed by  
    me in open session in authentication of its passage this Mar. 12,  
    2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      President ___________ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    Shields  
  
    Audited Claims Ordinance  
  
    May 8,2003  
