* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114557**   
**Ordinance Number: 121152**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending page 76 of the Official Land Use Map, (Volume 1 of Plats, page 238, Records of King County) to rezone property located at 3333 Wallingford Avenue North, from Industrial-Commercial with a 45' height limit (IC-45) to Neighborhood Commercial Two with a 65' height limit (NC2-65) and accepting a Property Use and Development Agreement in connection therewith. (Petition of Tomlinson, Inc., C.F. 305371, Application. 2105167)  
  
**Status:** Passed As Amended   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 12, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 22, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 22, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
**Note:** Wallingford Steps  
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 5, 2003   
**Committee:** Land Use   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO   
  
**Index Terms:** REZONES, WALLINGFORD, CONTRACT-REZONES  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 305371; Ord 110381, 121091  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending page 76 of the  
    Official Land Use Map, (Volume 1 of Plats, page 238, Records of King  
    County) to rezone property located at 3333 Wallingford Avenue North,  
    from Industrial-Commercial with a 45' height limit (IC-45) to  
    Neighborhood Commercial Two with a 65' height limit (NC2-65) and  
    accepting a Property Use and Development Agreement in connection  
    therewith.  (Petition of Tomlinson, Inc., C.F. 305371, Application.  
    2105167)  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  This Ordinance affects the following described property  
    (the "Property"):  
  
    LOTS 1, 2, 11 and 12 in Block 75 of the LAKE UNION ADDITION of the  
    CITY OF SEATTLE, as per PLAT RECORDED in VOLUME 1 of PLATS, PAGE 238,  
    RECORDS of KING COUNTY: SITUATE in the CITY OF SEATTLE, COUNTY of  
    KING, STATE OF WASHINGTON.  
  
    Section 2.  The Official Land Use Map zone classification for the  
    Property, as adopted by Ordinance 110381 and last amended by Ordinance  
    121091, and established on page 76 of the Official Land Use Map, is  
    amended to rezone the Property from Industrial-Commercial with a 45'  
    height limit (IC-45) to Neighborhood Commercial Two with a 65' height  
    limit (NC2-65), as shown in "Exhibit A," attached to this Ordinance.  
  
    Section 3.  A Property Use and Development Agreement that was  
    submitted to the City by Tomlinson Incorporated, owner of the  
    Property, by which said owner agrees to certain restrictions upon the  
    Property to ameliorate the adverse impacts of uses and developments  
    otherwise permitted in the NC2-65 zone upon property in the vicinity,  
    is hereby accepted and attached to this Ordinance as "Exhibit B."  
  
    Section 4.  Pursuant to SMC Section 23.76.060B(1)(b), the rezone of  
    the Property shall expire and be of no force and effect five (5) years  
    from the effective date of the approval of this rezone unless an  
    application is filed for a building permit for the building described  
    in Exhibit B and that building is completed and a Certificate of  
    Occupancy obtained from DCLU within the time permit authority is  
    active and valid.  
  
    Section 5.  The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file a  
    copy of said Property Use and Development Agreement and of this  
    Ordinance at the King County Records and Elections Division, to file  
    the original of the Property Use and Development Agreement with this  
    Ordinance at the City Clerk's Office, and to deliver copies of the  
    same to the Director of the Department of Design, Construction and  
    Land Use and to the King County Assessor's Office.  
  
    Section 6.  This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its passage and approval by the Mayor, but if  
    not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    President of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    Exhibit A:  Map  
    Exhibit B:  Property Use and Development Agreement  
    April 29, 2002  
    V2  
    Exhibit A:  Map  
    Exhibit B - Property Use and Development Agreement  
  
    Exhibit B - Property Use and Development Agreement  
  
    Exhibit B - Property Use and Development Agreement  
  
    When Recorded, Return to:  
    The City Clerk  
    First Floor, Municipal Building  
    600 4th Avenue  
    Seattle, WA  98104  
  
    PROPERTY USE AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT  
  
    Grantor:   1) Tomlinson Wallingford          2)____________________  
                  Apartments, LLC  
                  Additional on page_____  
  
    Grantee:   1) The City of Seattle            2)____________________  
                  Additional on page_____  
  
    Legal Description        Lots 1, 2, 11 and 12 in Block 75 of Lake Union  
    (abbreviated):           Addition to the City of Seattle, as per Plat  
                             recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, Page 238 records  
                             of King County.  
    Additional on: __________________________  
  
    Assessor's Tax Parcel ID #:  408330-7045-08 and 408330-7095-07  
  
    Reference Nos. of Documents Released or Assigned: N/A  
  
    THIS PROPERTY USE AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is  
    executed this _____ day of ______, 2003 in favor of the City of  
    Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation (herein called "City"), by  
    TomlinsonWallingford Apartments, LLC a Washington limited liability  
    corporation, sole owner of property legally described herein (herein  
    called "Owner").  
  
    RECITALS  
  
    A.  TomlinsonWallingford Apartments, LLC is the sole owner of that  
    certain real property in the City of Seattle described as Lots 1, 2,  
    11 and 12 in Block 75 of Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle,  
    as per Plat recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, Page 238 records of King  
    County, also commonly known as 3333 Wallingford Avenue N. and zoned  
    Industrial Commercial (IC-45), that is the subject of this Agreement  
    (herein called the "Property").  
  
    B.  On October 12, 2002, Owner submitted to the City of Seattle an  
    application for a contract rezone from Industrial Commercial with a  
    45' height limit (IC-45) to Neighborhood Commercial with a 65' height  
    limit (NC2-65).  The purpose of the application is to allow the  
    Property to be used for construction of a four-story residential  
    mixed-use building that would maintain the same roof height elevation  
    as the Property drops in elevation to the south.  The resulting  
    building will appear as a four-story building along N 34th St. and  
    rise to as high as a six-story building at the southern, downhill  
    extent of the Property.  
  
    C.  Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) Section 23.34.004 allows the City to  
    approve a contract rezone subject to "self-imposed restrictions upon  
    the use and development of the property in order to ameliorate adverse  
    impacts which could occur from unrestricted use and development  
    permitted in the zone."  
  
    D.  The Owner has a fee simple or other beneficial interest in the  
    Property described in paragraph A. and wants the City Council to  
    rezone the property pursuant to SMC 23.34.004.  
  
    E.  The City, in approving this Agreement, has determined, pursuant to  
    SMC 23.34.004, that the rezone of the Property and the waivers  
    granted thereunder would not be materially detrimental to the public  
    welfare or injurious to the property in the zone or vicinity in which  
    the Property is located.  
  
    AGREEMENT  
  
    Section 1.  Zone Changes Limited to Proposed Building.   Pursuant to  
    SMC 23.34.004, the Owner hereby covenants, bargains and agrees, on  
    behalf of itself and its successors and assigns, that it will comply  
    with the following limitations and conditions in consideration of the  
    rezone of the Property from IC-45 to NC2-65:  
  
    a) The NC2-65 zone shall be established only for development of a  
    building with substantially the same design and height as the one  
    approved in MUP 2105167 and represented in the Clerk's File CF 305371,  
    including the quality of materials and design details as shown on the  
    approved MUP Plans. Design details and additions recommended by the  
    Design Review Board (e.g., column capitals on the north elevation,  
    addition of an awning for overhead weather protection at the northwest  
    corner, consideration of using a topping slab or other paving above  
    the structural slab for the residential open space between the two  
    residential "blocks") shall also be included. Typical mechanical vents  
    and exhausts may be added to the roof of the approved building,  
  
    b) The design and function of the building and provision of street  
    level amenities shall be as developed in the MUP and Design Review  
    process (including a vent chase, constructed to Seattle Building Code  
    standards extending from the non-residential space in the southeast  
    portion of the first floor, through the roof of the building), as  
    shown in the approved Plans,  
  
    c) In the initial five (5) years after a Final Certificate of  
    Occupancy for the building is issued, uses within the non-residential  
    first floor spaces shall be limited to those allowed in a Pedestrian  
    One ("P1") zone. After five (5) years have passed, uses may be any as  
    otherwise allowed by the then applicable codes and regulations.  
  
    d) The rezone approval includes the development standard departures  
    for residential open space and commercial frontage thru the Design  
    Review process and as shown in the Plans,  
  
    e) Upon receipt of a building permit for all or part of the proposed  
    building the Owner shall contribute $10,000.00 to the Wallingford  
    Steps project either in reimbursement to the City for previous  
    expenditures or contribution to the City for additional improvements  
    to the existing steps,  
  
    f) Prior to receipt of a Final Certificate of Occupancy for the  
    proposed building the Owner shall contribute $10,000.00 to the City to  
    underwrite, partially or wholly, a feature art piece for the  
    terrace/gateway element at the southwest corner of Wallingford Avenue  
    N. and N. 34th Street. This feature art piece will be commissioned  
    through a local art competition conducted in consultation with the  
    Wallingford District Council.  
  
    g) The Owner shall pay the money required under (e) and (f), above, to  
    the City.  Upon delivery of said funds, Owner shall have no further  
    responsibility regarding the requirements in (e) and (f) above.  
  
    Section 2.  Agreement Runs With the Land.  This Agreement shall be  
    recorded in the records of King County by the City Clerk.  The  
    covenants hereof shall be deemed to attach to and run with the  
    Property and shall be binding upon the Owner, its heirs, successors  
    and assigns, and shall apply to after-acquired title of the Owner of  
    the Property; provided, however, the covenants herein and the rezone  
    shall expire and be of no force and effect five (5) years from the  
    effective date of the approval of the rezone unless an application is  
    filed for a building permit for the building contemplated in the  
    attached Exhibit A, the approved MUP plans, and that building is  
    completed and a Certificate of Occupancy obtained from DCLU within the  
    time permit authority is active and valid.  
  
    Section 3.  Amendment, Exercise of Police Power, No Precedent.  
    This Agreement shall only be amended or modified by a written  
    agreement signed by the Owner and the City, and approved by the  
    legislative authority of the City by ordinance.  Nothing in this  
    Agreement shall prevent the City Council from making such further  
    amendments to the Land Use Code or exercising the City's police power,  
    as it may deem necessary in the public interest.  Owner agrees that  
    nothing in this Agreement is intended to authorize any use or  
    dimension not otherwise permitted in a Neighborhood Commercial zone  
    with a sixty-five foot height limit (NC2-65), except as approved in  
    this Agreement.  The conditions contained in this Agreement are based  
    on the unique circumstances applicable to this Property, and this  
    Agreement is not intended to establish precedent for other rezones in  
    the surrounding area.  
  
    Section 4.  Benefited.  This Agreement is made for the benefit of the  
    City and for the benefit of the owners of the property within 300 feet  
    of the Property and either the City or any such property owners may  
    institute and prosecute any proceeding at law or in equity to enforce  
    this Agreement.  
  
    Section 5.  Repeal as Additional Remedy.  Owner acknowledges that  
    compliance with the conditions of this Agreement is a condition of the  
    subject rezone and that if Owner avails itself of the benefits of this  
    rezone but then fails to comply with the conditions of this Agreement  
    with the City, in addition to pursuing any other remedy, the City may  
    revoke the rezone by ordinance and require the use of the Property to  
    conform to the requirements of the previously existing IC-45 zone.  
  
    SIGNED this _____ day of ____________________, 2003.  
  
    OWNER  
    TOMLINSON WALLINGFORD APARTMENTS, LLC  
    ______________________________________  
    a Washington Limited Liability Corporation  
  
    By  
    Its:_____________________________(title).  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  
    COUNTY OF KING  
    ss.  
  
    On this day personally appeared before me _________________, to me known  
    to be the __________________________ of Tomlinson Wallingford  
    Apartments, LLC the party that executed the foregoing instrument, and  
    acknowledged such instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed  
    of such corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned,  
    and on oath stated that he was duly authorized to execute such instrument.  
  
     GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL this _____ day of  
    _______________________________, 2003.  
    Printed Name ___________________________________  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at  
    ______________________________________  
    My Commission Expires ___________________________  
  
    114557ExB.doc  
    5/9/2003  
    ta  
