* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114535**   
**Ordinance Number: 121131**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to taxicab rates; allowing for temporary fuel surcharges, and allowing for temporary suspensions of the twenty-five dollar flat rate from the downtown hotel district to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, and amending Section 6.310.530 of the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 21, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Conlin, Wills)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 2, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 1, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 14, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** PRICE-REGULATION, FUELS, TAXICABS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114535.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114535  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to taxicab rates; allowing for temporary fuel  
    surcharges, and allowing for temporary suspensions of the twenty-five  
    dollar flat rate from the downtown hotel district to Seattle-Tacoma  
    International Airport, and amending Section 6.310.530 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code.  
  
    WHEREAS, the price of fuel for taxicab drivers has increased by more  
    than thirty percent over the last month; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City of Seattle does not presently have the ability to  
    allow a temporary fuel surcharge for taxicab drivers when necessary;  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, security precautions at Seattle Tacoma International Airport  
    creates delays and increases the trip time to the airport due to  
    vehicle inspections and searches; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the mandatory flat rate of twenty five dollars from the  
    downtown core to the airport does not allow the driver to adjust the  
    fare because of such vehicle inspections; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City of Seattle desires to give the Director of the  
    Department of Executive Administration the authority to allow such  
    temporary surcharges, or temporarily suspend the mandatory flat rate  
    to the airport;  NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Seattle Municipal Code 6.310.530 is amended to read as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 6.310.530  Rates.  
  
    A.  The rates for taxicabs licensed to operate in Seattle shall be  
    established by the Seattle City Council.  
  
    B.  In reviewing rates the Council may take into account, among other  
    things, and with the objective of prescribing a just and reasonable  
    rate, the following factors:  
  
    1.  The information in a report prepared by the Director pursuant to  
    SMC Section 6.310.520;  
  
    2.  The public's need for adequate taxi service at the lowest level of  
    charges consistent with the provision, maintenance and continuation of  
    such service;  
  
    3.  The rates of other licensees operating in similar areas;  
  
    4.  The effect of such rates upon transportation of passengers by  
    other modes of transportation;  
  
    5.  The owners' need for revenue of a level that, under honest,  
    efficient and economical management, is sufficient to cover the cost  
    (including all operating expenses, depreciation accruals, rents,  
    license fees and taxes of every kind) of providing adequate taxi  
    service, plus an amount equal to such percentage of the cost as is  
    reasonably necessary for the replacement of deteriorated taxicabs and  
    a reasonable profit to the owner;  
  
    6.  Consistency of rates with those charged by King County.  
  
    C.  No taxicab shall have more than one (1) rate on its meter.  
  
    D.  Except for special or contract rates as provided for in this  
    chapter, or any per trip fee established by the Port of Seattle and  
    set forth in any operating agreement or tariff, or an airport flat  
    rate defined in this section, or a temporary fuel surcharge  
    authorized by the Director pursuant to subsection I of this section,  
    it shall be unlawful for anyone operating a taxicab licensed by  
    The City of Seattle to advertise, charge, demand or receive any  
    greater or lesser rate than the following:  
  
    Meter rate:  
  
    1.  Drop charge: for passengers for first 1/9 mile      $1.80  
  
    2.  Per mile: For each 1/9 mile or fraction thereof after the first  
    1/9 mile   .20  
  
    3.  For every one (1) minute of waiting time    .50*  
  
    4.  Extra charge for passengers over two (2) excluding children under  
    twelve (12)  .50  
  
    *  Waiting time rates are charged when taxicab speed is less than  
    seventeen  
  
    (17) miles per hour or when taxicab is asked to wait for the customer.  
  
    E.  Special Rates, Contract Rates, "Downtown to Airport" flat rate,  
    and Coupons.  
  
    1.  Special rates as defined in this chapter shall be calculated as a  
    percentage of the meter rate.  
  
    2.  The special rates must be filed with the Director on forms  
    furnished by the Director.  
  
    3.  All special rates and/or contract rates shall be filed once a year  
    at the time of application by the taxicab association representative,  
    or by the owner of a for-hire vehicle which is not a taxicab.  
  
    4.  Licensees may change the special rates filed no more than once a  
    year.  
  
    5.  Contract rates set during the license year shall be filed within  
    two (2) weeks of securing such contract and before implementing the  
    contract rate.  
  
    6.  All taxicabs shall charge a flat rate of Twenty-five Dollars ($25)  
    from the downtown hotel district to Seattle-Tacoma International  
    Airport except when contract rates are in effect for the trip,  
    or when the Director has temporarily suspended the flat rate in  
    accordance with subsection J of this section. The downtown hotel  
    district is the area defined by Broad Street to Mercer Street to I-5  
    on the north, Elliot Bay on the west, South Dearborn Street on the  
    south, and Boren Ave to the I-5 Freeway and then the Freeway on the  
    east.  
  
    7.  The use of coupons to establish a lower rate, or a rate not  
    provided within this section, is prohibited.  
  
    F.  For-hire Vehicle Rates.  
  
    1.  Every for-hire vehicle licensee shall file all rates and charges  
    with the director. All rates and charges, including any adopted senior  
    citizen discount rate shall be conspicuously displayed in the interior  
    of the for-hire vehicle so as to be readily discernible to the  
    passenger. The Director will prescribe the manner of such posting.  
  
    2.  For-hire vehicles must charge for service based on a written  
    contract, flat charge per trip, by zone, or by an hourly rate with  
    minimum increments of one-half (1/2) hour.  
  
    G.  The rates specified in this section shall not apply to  
    transportation of persons provided pursuant to a written contract  
    which establishes a fare at a different rate for specified  
    transportation and has been previously filed with the Director;  
    provided, that no contract may include any provision the effect of  
    which is to directly or indirectly require exclusive use of the  
    transportation services of the contracting taxicab or for-hire  
    vehicle.  
  
    H.  It is unlawful under the Americans with Disabilities Act to charge  
    a special service vehicle rate which is different from the taxicab  
    rates adopted in subsection D of this section, except in those  
    instances where the transportation of disabled persons is pursuant to  
    a written contract as specified in subsection G of this section (Class  
    B).  
  
    I.  The Director is authorized to approve a temporary fuel  
    surcharge to be added to the taxicab meter rate, or to the flat rate  
    for trips from the downtown hotel district to Seattle-Tacoma  
    International Airport, any time the price of fuel exceeds by 20% the  
    average cost of fuel in the Seattle metropolitan area in the preceding  
    year as published by the American Automobile Association.  The  
    surcharge shall be an amount necessary to recoup the increased fuel  
    costs.  
  
    J.  The Director is authorized to temporarily suspend the flat rate  
    from the downtown hotel district to Seattle-Tacoma International  
    Airport when conditions exist at the airport or elsewhere that result  
    in an average increase of ten (10) minutes to the normal trip time and  
    are beyond the control of the drivers.  Examples of such conditions  
    would be vehicle security checks at the airport or major construction  
    projects on interstate 5 or state route 99 that delay traffic.  
  
  
    Section 2.  Any act made consistent with the authority and prior  
    to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and  
    confirmed.  
  
      Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
     (Seal)  
  
    Mel McDonald  
  
    Fuel Surcharge ordinance  
  
    March 21, 2003  
  
    version 4  
