* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114533**   
**Ordinance Number: 121130**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE vacating Northeast Radford Drive and a portion of Northeast 64th Street on the petition of the University of Washington and accepting a Public Access Easement in relation herein, (Clerk File 303453).  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 21, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Conlin, Wills)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 2, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 1, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 14, 2003   
**Committee:** Transportation   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN   
  
**Index Terms:** STREETS, VACATING, UNIVERSITY-OF-WASHINGTON, SAND-POINT  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 303453  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114533.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114533  
  
**Electronic Copy: ** [PDF scan of Ordinance No. 121130](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_121130.pdf)  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE vacating Northeast Radford Drive and a portion of  
    Northeast 64th Street on the petition of the University of Washington  
    and accepting a Public Access Easement in relation herein, (Clerk  
    File303453).  
  
    WHEREAS, there has been filed with the City Council the petition of  
    the University of Washington for the vacation of Northeast Radford  
    Drive and a portion of Northeast 64th Street as herein fully  
    described; and  
  
    WHEREAS, following a public hearing on said petition, which commenced  
    on May 16, 2000, said petition was conditionally granted by the City  
    Council; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the petitioner is granting a public access easement for the  
    vacated rights-of-way; and  
  
    WHEREAS, pursuant to Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 15.62, the  
    petitioner is exempt from the street vacation fee; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  That  
  
    that portion of Northeast Radford Drive in the Correction Plat of Sand  
    Point Homes, an Addition to the City of Seattle, being a replat of  
    Block 1 and Block 7 to 24, of the Evergreen Addition to the City of  
    Seattle as recorded in Volume 39 of Plats, page 4, Records of King  
    County, Washington, AND  
  
    that portion of Northeast 64th Street lying between the production  
    north of the west margin of Correction Plat of Sand Point Homes  
    Addition, and a line drawn 264 feet parallel with, and east of, said  
    produced west margin  
  
    be and the same are hereby vacated; also RESERVING to the City of  
    Seattle the right to make all necessary slopes for cuts or fills upon  
    the above-described property in the reasonable original grading of any  
    rights-of-way abutting upon said property after said vacation.  
  
    Section 2. That the Public Access Easement, Recording Number  
    20030224001584, executed by the University of Washington, and  
    Attachment hereto as Attachment A, is hereby accepted.  
  
    Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachment A: Public Access Easement Agreement Recording Number  
    20030224001584  
  
    MoiraGray/mg  
  
    RadfordCtVacation  
  
    04/09/03  
  
    version1  
  
    - 1 -  
  
    After Recording Return To:  
  
    William H. Block  
  
    Buck & Gordon LLP  
  
    902 Waterfront Place  
  
    1011 Western Avenue  
  
    Seattle, WA  98104-1097  
  
    PUBLIC ACCESS AGREEMENT  
  
    Grantor:   Board of Regents of the University of Washington  
  
    Grantee:  City of Seattle  
  
    Legal Description:  
  
    Block 1 and 2 of Correction Plat of Sandpoint Homes as per plat  
    recorded in Volume 39 of Plats, page 4 records of King County and Lots  
    (see detailed survey) and Lots described in legal description.  
  
    Assessor's Property Tax Parcel/Account Number(s): 753480 0005  
  
    This Public Access Agreement (this "Agreement") is made this ____ day  
    of ________, 2003 by the Board of Regents for the University of  
    Washington, an agency of the State of Washington ("Owner") in favor of  
    the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of  
    Washington (the "City").  
  
    R E C I T A L S:  
  
    Owner is vested in fee simple title and/or has a substantial  
    beneficial interest in the real property situated in King County,  
    Washington, legally described on Exhibit A hereto (the "Property").  
  
    On July 10, 2000, the Seattle City Council voted to conditionally  
    grant a petition to vacate portions of Northeast Radford Drive and of  
    Northeast 64th Street located within the Property (the "Conditional  
    Vacation") as more particularly described in Seattle Clerk's File  
    303453 , for the construction of housing and related facilities.  
  
    Pursuant to conditions 2 and 5 of the Vacation, Owner is required to  
    provide public access within the Property over and across the  
    following three areas:  
  
    (a) The drive areas connecting Northeast 65th Street and Northeast  
    64th Street as shown in dark shading on Exhibit B (the "NE 65th  
    Connector");  
  
    (b) The drive areas of 65th Avenue Northeast as shown in dark shading  
    on Exhibit C hereto ("65th Ave NE");  
  
    (c) The drive areas of Northeast Radford Drive and adjacent sidewalks,  
    sidewalks providing through-access from Sand Point Way NE to 65th  
    Avenue NE as shown in dark lines on Exhibit D ("NE Radford"); and  
  
    (d) The general use walkways, common lawns and common play areas of  
    the Property as shown in cross hatching on Exhibit D (the "Common  
    Areas").  
  
    The NE 65th Connector, 65th Ave NE, NE Radford and the Common Areas  
    are referred to collectively herein as the "Public Access Areas."  In  
    each case, they shall exclude areas designated for curbside parking  
    and private entry drives.  
  
    Owner now seeks final vacation of Northeast Radford Drive and  
    Northeast 64th Street.  
  
    AGREEMENT  
  
    Now, therefore, the Owner hereby covenants, bargains and agrees on  
    behalf of itself, its successors and assigns as follows:  
  
    Section 1.  The Owner hereby grants to the City, for the benefit of  
    the public, a right of public access over and across the Public Access  
    Areas as described above.  
  
    Section 2.  The Owner further grants to the City, for the benefit of  
    Seattle City Light or its assigns, a right of entry to the Public  
    Access Areas for servicing of utility lines and vaults.  
  
    Section 3.  Owner shall have the right from time to time to  
    temporarily close or obstruct the Public Access Areas for required  
    maintenance and repair or because of circumstances beyond Owner's  
    control.  Owner may adopt and enforce such reasonable rules and  
    regulations regarding the use of and access to the Public Access Areas  
    Owner reasonably deems necessary to ensure the safety or security of  
    the residents of Radford Court and users of the Public Access Areas or  
    the Property, including but not limited to rules and regulations  
    similar to those applicable to the University of Washington campus and  
    dormitory areas in other locations in Seattle.  
  
    Section 4.  Owner agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless from  
    any claims, losses, or liabilities for physical damage to persons or  
    property occurring in the Public Access Areas to the extent caused by  
    the Owner's negligence.  
  
    Section 5.  This Agreement shall be recorded in the records of King  
    County and the covenants hereof shall be deemed to attach to and run  
    with the Property and shall be binding upon Owner, its heirs,  
    successors and assigns.  
  
    Section 6.  This Agreement may be amended or modified by agreement  
    between Owner and City provided such amended agreement shall be  
    approved by the legislative authority of the City by ordinance.  
    Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as a surrender of the  
    City's governmental powers.  
  
    Section 7.  This Agreement grants a right of access to the public and  
    to City Light for the benefit of the City and the City may institute  
    and prosecute any proceeding at law or in equity to enforce this  
    Agreement.  This Agreement shall not grant any private right of  
    enforcement to any individual member of the public.  
  
    Section 8.  Owner reserves the right to use the Public Access Areas  
    for any purpose which does not interfere with the public's use of the  
    Public Access Areas, including but not limited to the right to use the  
    subsurface for construction, support or tieback and the right to grant  
    easements within the Public Access Area.  
  
    Section 8.  Notwithstanding the covenants contained herein, nothing in  
    this Agreement shall constitute a public dedication of any portion of  
    the Property.  
  
    Section 9.  In the event any covenant or condition hereinabove  
    contained, or any portion thereof is invalid or void, such invalidity  
    or avoidance shall in no way affect any other covenant, condition or  
    restriction herein contained.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed and  
    delivered as of the _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
    OWNER:  
  
    BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON  
  
    By:  
  
    Its:  
  
    Approved:  
  
    __________________________________  
  
    William H. Block  
  
    Special Assistant Attorney General  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
              ) ss.  
  
    COUNTY OF KING    )  
  
    I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that  
    _______________ signed this instrument, on oath stated that (he/she)  
    was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it in  
    (his/her) capacity as ________________________ of Board of Regents of  
    the University of Washington to be the free and voluntary act of such  
    party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.  
  
    GIVEN under my hand and official seal this _____ day of __________,  
    2003.  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the  
  
    State of Washington, residing  
  
    at   ;  
  
    My commission expires:  
  
    [Type or Print Notary Name]  
