* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114539**   
**Ordinance Number: 121197**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE creating positions without additional appropriation authority in the departments of Fleets and Facilities, Human Services, Information Technology, and Seattle Public Utilities.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 23, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 2, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 1, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
**Note:** TES, Temporary employees  
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 21, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** BUDGET, CITY-EMPLOYEES, FLEETS-AND-FACILITIES-DEPARTMENT, DEPARTMENT-OF-HUMAN-SERVICES, DEPARTMENT-OF-INFORMATION-TECHNOLOGY, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114539.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114539  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE creating positions without additional appropriation  
    authority in the departments of Fleets and Facilities, Human Services,  
    Information Technology, and Seattle Public Utilities.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  As recommended by the Director of Finance and classified  
    by the Personnel Director, the following unfunded positions are hereby  
    created in the departments shown:  
  
    Department               Position #  Classification  
  
    Fleets and Facilities    10002511    Administrative Support Assistant (BU)  
    Fleets and Facilities    10002512    Janitor (DAS/CL)  
    Human Services           10002527    Planning and Development Specialist II  
    Human Services           10002528    Accounting Technician I (BU)  
    Human Services           10002529    Management Systems Analyst, Senior  
    Information Technology   10002545    Warehouser, Chief  
    Information Technology   10002546    Public Relations Supervisor  
  
    Section 2.  The heads of respective departments affected by this  
    ordinance are hereby authorized to use unexpended and unencumbered  
    funds accumulating in their respective Budgets to pay the compensation  
    authorized herein.  
  
    Section 3.  The heads of respective departments are authorized to fill  
    such positions subject to civil service and personnel rules and laws.  
  
    Section 4.  Any act consistent with this authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 5.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    June 10, 2003  
    version #2  
    t  
