* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114516**   
**Ordinance Number: 121135**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to affordable housing development; authorizing an agreement with the Washington State Department of Community, Trade and Economic Development and the acceptance by the City of One Hundred Ninety Thousand Dollars ($190,000) thereunder; authorizing a grant to HomeSight to support development of housing for low-income buyers; increasing the 2003 Budget of the Office of Housing by making an appropriation conditioned on receipt of State funds; and ratifying and confirming prior acts, all by a vote of three-fourths of the members of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 28, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Conlin)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 9, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 8, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 31, 2003   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services and Community Development   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER   
  
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, CENTRAL-AREA, WASHINGTON-STATE, GRANTS, CENTRAL-AREA, ATLANTIC, HOMEOWNERS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114516.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114516  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to affordable housing development; authorizing  
    an agreement with the Washington State Department of Community, Trade  
    and Economic Development and the acceptance by the City of One Hundred  
    Ninety Thousand Dollars ($190,000) thereunder; authorizing a grant to  
    HomeSight to support development of housing for low-income buyers;  
    increasing the 2003 Budget of the Office of Housing by making an  
    appropriation conditioned on receipt of State funds; and ratifying and  
    confirming prior acts, all by a vote of three-fourths of the members  
    of the City Council.  
  
    WHEREAS, the Washington State Department of Community, Trade and  
    Economic Development (CTED) invited, and subsequently approved, an  
    application from the City of Seattle and HomeSight, a private not for  
    profit housing developer, to fund a pilot project to demonstrate that  
    commercially viable, affordable and attractive high-density  
    residential projects can be built in urban growth areas; and  
  
    WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 119548, the City has entered into a  
    contract for the sale to HomeSight of certain real property commonly  
    known as Parcel 4b of the Dearborn-Hiawatha Properties located at 813  
    Davis Place, Seattle, for the development of housing for low-income  
    home buyers; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Washington State Department of Community, Trade and  
    Economic Development has proposed an agreement with The City of  
    Seattle related to the Davis Place Condominium project ("Project");  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, the proposed agreement provides for the majority of the funds  
    paid to the City to be disbursed to HomeSight for costs of the  
    Project;  NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Director of the Office of Housing (OH) or her designee  
    is authorized to execute, deliver, and administer, for and on behalf  
    of The City of Seattle, an agreement with the Washington State  
    Department of Community, Trade and Economic Development ("CTED") under  
    which the City will receive up to One Hundred Ninety Thousand Dollars  
    ($190,000) to HomeSight's Davis Place Condominium project ("Project"),  
    based on the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, with such revisions  
    and amendments as such Director may deem necessary or appropriate to  
    carry out the intent of this ordinance ("Agreement").  The intent of  
    CTED and the City is to demonstrate that commercially viable,  
    affordable and attractive high-density residential projects can be  
    built in urban growth areas. Payments to the City under the Agreement,  
    when received, are hereby accepted and shall be deposited in the Low  
    Income Housing Subfund.  
  
    Section 2.  A Scope of Work, Exhibit A of the Agreement, specifies the  
    project tasks to be completed by the Office of Housing, the Department  
    of Design, Construction and Land Use, by the Seattle Department of  
    Transportation, and by HomeSight in order to carry out the purpose of  
    the Agreement. The Director of the Office of Housing is authorized to  
    negotiate, execute, perform, administer, and modify an agreement  
    between the City and HomeSight ("HomeSight Contract") under which,  
    contingent on the receipt of funds from CTED under the Agreement, the  
    City will grant to HomeSight up to $175,000 for costs of the Project.  
    The HomeSight Contract shall require that the grant funds be used for  
    costs attributable to units that will be sold to and occupied by low-  
    income households, as defined in RCW 35.21.685, on below-market terms  
    of sale. The Director of the Office of Housing will be responsible for  
    disbursement of the funds to HomeSight in accordance with the  
    HomeSight Contract. Nothing in this ordinance or the Agreement shall  
    be construed to authorize or require any action by any City department  
    or officer contrary to applicable development regulations or otherwise  
    contrary to law, nor to commit the City to the result of any  
    regulatory or permit process, nor to modify any processes or standards  
    applicable to the Project.  
  
    Section 3.  To carry out the purpose of the Agreement authorized in  
    Section 1, and contingent upon the execution of that Agreement, the  
    appropriation for the following in the 2003 budget is increased as  
    follows:  
  
    Fund                                        Department                        Line of Business                   Amount  
  
    Low Income Housing            OH                                     Office of Housing (XZ1BI)   $190,000  
    Subfund (16440)  
  
    provided that such increase in expenditure authority is conditioned  
    upon, and limited to the extent of, the receipt of money from CTED  
    under the Agreement.  Unspent funds so appropriated shall carry  
    forward to subsequent fiscal years until they are exhausted.  The  
    foregoing notwithstanding, to the extent that the total amount  
    received by the City under the Agreement as of the end of 2003, after  
    reduction by any amount the City shall be required to return to CTED,  
    is less than $190,000, the unexpended portion of the appropriation in  
    this Section shall be deemed abandoned.  
  
    Section 4.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 5.  The foregoing appropriation is made to meet actual  
    necessary expenditures of the City for which insufficient  
    appropriation has been made due to causes which could not reasonably  
    have been foreseen at the time of the making of the 2003 budget;  
    therefore, in accordance with RCW Chapter 35.32A, by reason of the  
    facts above stated, this ordinance shall take effect and be in force  
    thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by a three-fourths vote of all the members of the City  
    Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed by me in open  
    session in authentication of its passage this  _____ day of  
    __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    Attachments:  Exhibit A (Interlocal Agreement and Scope of Work)  
    3/12/03  
    Version #2  
    Interlocal Agreement Between Washington State Department of Community,  
    Trade and Economic Development  
      And  
    The City of Seattle  
  
    THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into by and between the Department  
    of Community, Trade and Economic Development, hereinafter referred to  
    as "CTED", and the City of Seattle, hereinafter referred to as "the  
    CITY".  
  
    WHEREAS, CTED is authorized by RCW 43.330.050(5) to cooperate with and  
    provide assistance to local governments and local agencies serving the  
    communities of the state for the purpose of aiding orderly,  
    productive, and coordinated development of the state,  
  
    NOW THEREFORE, all parties mutually agree to the following:  
  
    1.  SCOPE OF WORK  
  
    The purpose of this Agreement is to demonstrate that commercially  
    viable, affordable and attractive high-density residential projects  
    can be built in urban growth areas. Attachment A, Scope of Work, is by  
    this reference incorporated into this Agreement.  
  
    2.  PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE  
  
    Subject to its other provisions, the period of performance of this  
    Agreement shall commence on  
  
    July 1, 2002, and be completed on June 30, 2003, unless terminated  
    sooner as provided herein.  
  
    3.  PAYMENT  
  
    CTED shall pay the CITY an amount not to exceed one hundred ninety  
    thousand dollars ($190,000) for the performance of all things  
    necessary for, or incidental to, the services as set forth in Section  
    1 of this agreement.  
  
    On or after November 1, 2002, and upon completion of that portion of  
    the scope of work to that date, the CITY shall submit an invoice  
    voucher to CTED for an amount equal to no more than one hundred forty-two  
    thousand five hundred dollars ($142,500).  Upon completion of the  
    entire scope of work, no earlier than June 30, 2003, and no later than  
    the expiration of this Agreement, the CITY shall submit an invoice  
    voucher to CTED for an amount equal to no more than forty-seven  
    thousand five hundred dollars ($47,500).  Any funds apportioned to be  
    distributed by the terms of this Agreement and not requested by the  
    CITY, or, if requested and not approved for distribution by CTED,  
    shall be forfeited by the CITY.  
  
    4.  RECORDS MAINTENANCE  
  
    The parties to this Agreement shall each maintain books, records,  
    documents and other evidence which sufficiently and properly reflect  
    all direct and indirect costs expended by either party in the  
    performance of the service(s) described herein. These records shall be  
    subject to inspection, review or audit by personnel of both parties,  
    other personnel duly authorized by either party, the Office of the  
    State Auditor, and federal officials so authorized by law. All books,  
    records, documents, and other material relevant to this Agreement will  
    be retained for six years after expiration and the Office of the State  
    Auditor, federal auditors, and any persons duly authorized by the  
    parties shall have full access and the right to examine any of these  
    materials during this period.  
  
    Records and other documents, in any medium, furnished by one party to  
    this Agreement to the other party, will remain the property of the  
    furnishing party, unless otherwise agreed. The receiving party will  
    not disclose or make available this material to any third parties  
    without first giving notice to the furnishing party and giving it a  
    reasonable opportunity to respond. Each party will utilize reasonable  
    security procedures and protections to ensure that records and  
    documents provided by the other party are not erroneously disclosed to  
    third parties.  
  
    5.  RIGHTS IN DATA  
  
    Unless otherwise provided, data which originates from this Agreement  
    shall be "works for hire" as defined by the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976  
    and shall be owned by CTED.  Data shall include, but not be limited  
    to, reports, documents, pamphlets, advertisements, books, magazines,  
    surveys, studies, computer programs, films, tapes, and/or sound  
    reproductions. Ownership includes the right to copyright, patent,  
    register, and the ability to transfer these rights.  
  
    6.  INDEPENDENT CAPACITY  
  
    The employees or agents of each party who are engaged in the  
    performance of this Agreement shall continue to be employees or agents  
    of that party and shall not be considered for any purpose to be  
    employees or agents of the other party.  
  
    7.  AGREEMENT ALTERATIONS AND AMENDMENTS  
  
    This Agreement may be amended by mutual agreement of the parties. Such  
    amendments shall not be binding unless they are in writing and signed  
    by personnel authorized to bind each of the parties.  
  
    8.  TERMINATION  
  
    Any party may terminate this Agreement upon 30 days' prior written  
    notification to the other party.   If this Agreement is so terminated,  
    the parties shall be liable only for performance rendered or costs  
    incurred in accordance with the terms of this Agreement prior to the  
    effective date of termination.  
  
    9.  TERMINATION FOR CAUSE  
  
    If for any cause, any party does not fulfill in a timely and proper  
    manner its obligations under this Agreement, or if either party  
    violates any of these terms and conditions, the aggrieved parties will  
    give the other party written notice of such failure or violation. The  
    responsible party will be given the opportunity to correct the  
    violation or failure within 15 working days. If failure or violation  
    is not corrected, this Agreement may be terminated immediately by  
    written notice of the aggrieved parties to the other.  
  
    10.  SAVINGS  
  
    CTED may unilaterally terminate all or part of this contract, or may  
    reduce its scope of work and budget, if there is a reduction in funds  
    by the source of those funds, and if such funds are the basis for this  
    contract.  Such termination shall be effective ten (10) days from the  
    date of mailing.  
  
    11.  HOLD HARMLESS  
  
    Each party shall protect and hold harmless the other party from and  
    against all claims, suits or actions arising from any negligent act or  
    omission of that party's employees, agents and/or authorized  
    subcontractor(s) while performing under the terms of this agreement.  
  
    12.  DISPUTES  
  
    Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, when a bona fide  
    dispute arises between the parties and it cannot be resolved through  
    discussion and negotiation, either party may request a dispute  
    hearing.  The parties shall select a dispute resolution team to  
    resolve the dispute.  The team shall consist of a representative  
    appointed by CTED, a representative appointed by the CITY and a third  
    party mutually agreed by both parties.  The team shall attempt, by  
    majority vote, to resolve the dispute.  The parties agree that this  
    dispute process shall precede any action in a judicial or quasi-  
    judicial tribunal.  
  
    13.  GOVERNANCE  
  
    This Agreement is entered into pursuant to and under the authority  
    granted by the laws of the state of Washington and any applicable  
    federal laws. The provisions of this Agreement shall be construed to  
    conform to those laws.  
  
    In the event of an inconsistency in the terms of this Agreement, or  
    between its terms and any applicable statute,  ordinance or rule, the  
    inconsistency shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following  
    order:  
  
    a. Applicable state and federal statutes and rules;  
  
    b. Applicable City of Seattle ordinances and rules;  
  
    c.  This Section of this Agreement;  
  
    d. Scope of work attached hereto; ande. Any other provisions of the  
    Agreement, including materials incorporated by reference.  
  
    Any provision of this Agreement or its attached Scope of Work  
    notwithstanding: (a) nothing herein shall be construed to require the  
    City to exercise its legislative or regulatory authority in a manner  
    that is inconsistent with local ordinances, statutes or authority; (b)  
    any reference to any time by which permits will or may be issued is  
    subject to the processes required by applicable City ordinances and  
    other laws, including without limitation any appeals, and to the  
    outcomes of those processes.  
  
    14.  ASSIGNMENT  
  
    The work to be provided under this Agreement, and any claim arising  
    thereunder, is not assignable or delegable by either party in whole or  
    in part, without the express prior written consent of the other party,  
    which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.  
  
    15.  WAIVER  
  
    A failure by either party to exercise its rights under this Agreement  
    shall not preclude that party from subsequent exercise of such rights  
    and shall not constitute a waiver of any other rights under this  
    Agreement unless stated to be such in a writing signed by an  
    authorized representative of the party and attached to the original  
    Agreement.  
  
    16.  SEVERABILITY  
  
    If any provision of this Agreement or any provision of any document  
    incorporated by reference shall be held invalid, such invalidity shall  
    not affect the other provisions of this Agreement which can be given  
    effect without the invalid provision, if such remainder conforms to  
    the requirements of applicable law and the fundamental purpose of this  
    Agreement, and to this end the provisions of this Agreement are  
    declared to be severable.  
  
    17.  ALL WRITINGS CONTAINED HEREIN  
  
    This Agreement contains all the terms and conditions agreed upon by  
    the parties. No other understandings, oral or otherwise, regarding the  
    subject matter of this Agreement shall be deemed to exist or to bind  
    any of the parties hereto.  
  
    18.  CONTRACT MANAGEMENT  
  
    The program manager for each of the parties shall be responsible for  
    and shall be the contact person for all communications and billings  
    regarding the performance of this Agreement.  
  
    The Program Manager for CTED is: Heather Ballash, PO Box 48350,  
    Olympia, WA  98504-8350.  (360) 725-2808.  
  
    The Program Manager for the CITY is Bill Rumpf, 500 Fifth Avenue, Ste  
    5700, Seattle, WA  98104.  (206) 615-1577.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement.  
  
    Department of Community, Trade,        City of Seattle  
    And Economic Development  
    By:____________________________    By:_________________________________  
      Martha Choe, Director            Title:_______________________________  
    Date:____________________________  Date:_______________________________  
                                       Federal Tax Identification Number (TIN)  
  
    Approved as to Form  
    _________________________________  _________________________________  
    Assistant Attorney General  
  
    _________________________________  
    Date  
  
    Scope of Work  
    DAVIS PLACE CONDOS  
    A partnership between the City of Seattle and HomeSight  
  
    Project Goal:  
  
    Have the land acquisition, permitting and financing completed in order  
    to start construction of Davis Place Condos in May of 2003.  
  
    At project completion, Davis Place Condos will be an attractive  
    housing development that adds positively to the neighborhood and  
    offers families affordable home ownership opportunities.  Successful  
    project completion will also demonstrate the effectiveness of a solid  
    partnership between the City of Seattle and HomeSight.  The City will  
    have the opportunity to study, in built form, the effects of some  
    revisions to its current standards for the built environment.  These  
    revisions will provide greater flexibility for creative development  
    proposals, while achieving the City's Comprehensive Plan and growth  
    management goals.  This project will help inform City decisions to  
    amend regulations and/or processes that could then be applied more  
    broadly.  These revisions will allow HomeSight to produce new homes  
    affordable to low- and moderate-income first-time homeowners and to  
    create an asset for the Jackson Place Community.  
  
    Project Tasks:  
  
    1.  Land Acquisition  
  
    The City and HomeSight have executed a purchase and sale agreement for  
    transfer of this property from the City to HomeSight.  
  
    Subtasks:  
  
    a.  The 14' wide strip of land along the west property line, adjacent  
    to the Cedar River water main corridor, is to be transferred from the  
    jurisdiction of the Office of Housing to Seattle Public Utilities.  
    This transfer will occur internally within the City prior to  
    HomeSight's purchase of the land.  
  
    Deliverable:     Transfer of jurisdiction recorded so that title report  
                     on the property to be purchased by HomeSight does not include  
                     this strip.  
  
    Timeframe:       by beginning of 2003 in order to finalize project  
                     financing  
  
    Resource:        Office of Housing - primary, HomeSight -- secondary  
  
    b.  HomeSight to acquire property prior to start of construction.  
  
    Deliverable:     Close on sale  
  
    Timeframe:       May 2003  
  
    Resource:        Office of Housing, HomeSight  
  
    2.  Construction Financing  
  
    HomeSight will obtain the construction financing best suited to this  
    project.  This will probably involve funds from a number of sources.  
  
    Subtasks:  
  
    a.  HomeSight to meet with its private lending partners to develop the  
    construction loan best suited for this project.  
  
    Deliverable:     Selection of lending partner  
  
    Timeframe:       Spring 2003  
  
    Resource:        HomeSight  
  
    b.  Explore feasibility of using location efficient mortgages in order  
    to maximize the affordability for buyers.  
  
    Deliverable:     Decide whether or not to pursue location efficient  
                     mortgages  
  
    Timeframe:       Spring 2003  
  
    Resource:        HomeSight  
  
    c.  Obtain construction financing package for this project  
  
    Deliverable:     Close on construction financing loans  
  
    Timeframe:       Spring 2003  
  
    Resource:        HomeSight  
  
    3.  Permanent Financing  
  
    HomeSight will assemble purchase assistance necessary for low- and  
    moderate-income first time homeowners to purchase homes at Davis Place  
    Condos.  
  
    Subtasks:  
  
    a. City discounted the value of the land in return for providing 6  
    units affordable to those at or below 80% of area median income.  
  
    Timeframe:       done  
  
    b. City awarded HomeSight's request for a Property Tax Exemption for  
    Davis Place Condos.  Subsequent administrative steps will be taken to  
    complete the process.  
  
    Deliverable:     Complete all required paperwork in time to not delay  
                     project start, such as the contract for Property Tax Exemption  
                     if required.  
  
    Timeframe:       Spring 2003  
  
    Resource:        Office of Housing, HomeSight  
  
    c. City awarded HomeSight's request for $560,000 of purchase  
    assistance for HomeSight's Puget Sound Revolving Loan Fund  
    specifically dedicated to buyers of Davis Place Condos.  Subsequent  
    administrative steps are necessary to make these funds accessible to  
    HomeSight.  
  
    Deliverable:     Complete amendment of existing memorandum of  
                     understanding between the City and HomeSight  
  
    Timeframe:       February 2003  
  
    Resource:        Office of Housing  
  
    4.  Land Use and Building Permitting  
  
    This project involves a number of land use, grading and building  
    permits.  Seattle Department of Design, Construction and Land Use  
    (DCLU) will expedite the reviews of required permit submittals in  
    order to have all permits issued in time to start construction by the  
    beginning of May 2003.  
  
    Subtasks:  
  
    a. DCLU and HomeSight will meet to outline permits required for this  
    project and to establish permitting schedule which will allow all  
    permits to be issued by the beginning of April 2003.  This will  
    include a discussion of the status of those permit submittal already  
    made.  
  
    Deliverable:     Permitting schedule, including list of permits required  
                     and understanding of permitting status.  Both parties agree to  
                     abide by the schedule produced, unless subsequent changes are  
                     agreed upon by both parties and these changes do not delay  
                     permit issuance by the beginning of April 2003.  
  
    Timeframe:       Fall 2002  
  
    Resource:        DCLU, HomeSight  
  
    b. DCLU will complete all permit reviews and paperwork in order to  
    have permits issued by beginning of April 2003.  
  
    Deliverable:     All permits issued  
  
    Timeframe:       by beginning of April 2003  
  
    Resource:        DCLU -- reviews, HomeSight -- submittals  
  
    c. DCLU and HomeSight will work together to determine how to create an  
    exception in building height measurement techniques in order to be  
    able to build 2-story residential buildings whose first floors are  
    essentially at grade (ie without having to build the first floor below  
    ground) on a site which had been previously excavated.  This will  
    demonstrate a possible solution to the difficulties with the current  
    height measurement technique which relies on existing grade (or  
    proposed grade, whichever is more restrictive) as the point from which  
    maximum building height is determined.  As a result, the previous  
    excavation on this site essentially renders it impossible to build a  
    2-story residential building within this multi-family zone.  
  
    Deliverable:     DCLU will determine process required to accomplish this  
                     task and how to work this into the permitting schedule  
  
    Timeframe:       Fall 2002  
  
    Resource:        DCLU - primary, HomeSight - secondary  
  
    d. DCLU and HomeSight will work together to determine options to  
    further reduce parking requirements for affordable units.  This will  
    help demonstrate how alternative transportation modes can help reduce  
    the need for parking and thus the cost of housing development, while  
    helping the City achieve its Comprehensive Plan goal of reducing  
    reliance on the automobile.  
  
    Deliverable:     DCLU will explore options open to it and HomeSight to  
                     explore feasibility of participating in the FlexCar program  
  
    Timeframe:       Fall 2002  
  
    Resource:        DCLU, HomeSight  
  
    e. DCLU and HomeSight will work together to determine options to  
    reduce lot coverage limitations for this project.  This will  
    demonstrate greater flexibility in development standards which can  
    still result in a livable development that is acceptable to the  
    neighborhood, due to use of the Neighborhood Design Review process.  
  
    Deliverable:     DCLU and HomeSight will meet to explore options and if  
                     feasible, to incorporate necessary process into permitting  
                     schedule  
  
    Timeframe:       Fall 2002  
  
    Resource:        DCLU, HomeSight  
  
    5.  Infrastructure Permitting  
  
    This project involves a number of infrastructure permits which are  
    required and coordinated by Seattle Department of Transportation  
    (SDOT), including work within the rights-of-ways adjacent to the  
    project site as well as infrastructure work to be completed on private  
    property.  SDOT will expedite the reviews of required permit  
    submittals in order to have all permits issued in time to start  
    construction by the beginning of May 2003.  
  
    Subtasks:  
  
    a. SDOT and HomeSight will meet to outline scope of work and permits  
    required for this project, and to establish permitting schedule which  
    will allow all permits to be issued by the beginning of April 2003.  
    This will include a discussion of the status of those permit submittal  
    already made.  In addition, SDOT and HomeSight will establish schedule  
    for tasks required after permit issuance, prior to start of  
    construction.  
  
    Deliverable:     Permitting schedule, including list of permits required  
                     and understanding of permitting status.  Schedule of additional  
                     tasks required prior to start of construction.  Both parties  
                     agree to abide by the schedule produced, unless subsequent  
                     changes are agreed upon by both parties and these changes do  
                     not delay permit issuance by the beginning of April 2003.  
  
    Timeframe:  Fall 2002  
  
    Resource:  SDOT, HomeSight  
  
    b. SDOT will complete all permit reviews and paperwork in order to  
    have all required permits issued by beginning of April 2003.  In  
    addition, any tasks required prior to start of construction will be  
    completed by the beginning of April 2003  
  
    Deliverable:     All permits issued, all additional required tasks  
                     completed  
  
    Timeframe:       by beginning of April 2003  
  
    Resource:        SDOT -- reviews, HomeSight -- submittals  
  
    c. SDOT and HomeSight will work together to relax some street  
    standards in order to achieve a more affordable project.  This will  
    include specifics such as a method to install curbs, sidewalks and  
    gutters where required for this project in a manner which minimizes  
    the removal and repaving of the existing streets which are in good  
    condition.  This will help demonstrate how greater flexibility in City  
    standards can increase the stock of affordable housing while also  
    preserving the functionality required by the City.  
  
    Deliverable:     SDOT to complete review of HomeSight's submittal  
                     proposing how this can be done, and come to agreement with  
                     HomeSight on scope of this work specifically to minimize  
                     costs while preserving the functionality required by the City.  
  
    Timeframe:       early November 2002  
  
    Resource:        SDOT - primary, HomeSight - secondary  
  
    d. SDOT and HomeSight will work to reduce the width of the planting  
    strips required.  This will provide, in built form, an example of a  
    narrower planting strip to inform City discussions to amend such  
    standards.  
  
    Deliverable:     SDOT to complete review of HomeSight's submittal  
                     proposing how this can be done, and come to agreement with  
                     HomeSight on scope of this work specifically to minimize  
                     the removal and repaving of streets in good condition.  
  
    Timeframe:       early November 2002  
  
    Resource:        SDOT - primary, HomeSight - secondary  
  
    e. SDOT and HomeSight will determine process to expedite survey  
    process prior to installation of public infrastructure.  
  
    Deliverable:     SDOT will agree to allow HomeSight to bring private  
                     surveyors to complete this work.  
  
    Timeframe:       Fall 2002  
  
    Resource:        SDOT - primary, HomeSight - secondary  
  
    6.  Creating an finished project attractive to the community  
  
    It is HomeSight's standard procedure to include the neighborhood in  
    its development process.  This process has been initiated for Davis  
    Place Condos and will be maintained through development.  
  
    Subtasks:  
  
    a. HomeSight submitted a development proposal for this site that was  
    responsive to the criteria established by the City and the Jackson  
    Place Community Council.  
  
    Deliverable:     Site was awarded to HomeSight after evaluation of  
                     proposal by both the City of Seattle and the Jackson Place  
                     Community Council and after a presentation to the community  
  
    Timeframe:       Done  
  
    Resource:        HomeSight  
  
    b. HomeSight will establish means to keep dialogue with the community  
    open.  
  
    Deliverable:     HomeSight met voluntarily with the Jackson Place  
                     Community Council to report on project status and also to  
                     invite the Council to establish a Design Liaison Committee  
                     from within the community.  HomeSight has met with this  
                     committee.  
  
    Timeframe:       Done  
  
    Resource:        HomeSight  
  
    c. HomeSight will continue to keep the Jackson Place Community Council  
    informed of the progress of Davis Place Condos.  
  
    Deliverable:     HomeSight will make a presentation to the Jackson Place  
                     Community Council.  At that meeting, the community will  
                     reconfirm a design liaison committee to work with HomeSight  
                     through this project.  
  
    Timeframe:       Fall 2002 for next meeting to Community Council meeting,  
                     Winter/Spring 2003 for additional presentations to the Design  
                     Liaison Committee  
  
    Resource:        HomeSight  
  
    d. HomeSight will meet with interested neighbors of the project as the  
    project design evolves.  
  
    Deliverable:     HomeSight will complete the DCLU Neighborhood Design  
                     Review process.  Two formal presentations have already been  
                     made and one more will follow.  
  
    Timeframe:       Spring 2003 for the completion  
  
    Resource:        HomeSight -- primary, DCLU - secondary  
  
    e. The Jackson Place Community Council will be informed of the  
    implications of selection as a Housing Demonstration Project by CTED.  
  
    Deliverable:     HomeSight will make a presentation to the Jackson Place  
                     Community Council regarding the award and its implications.  
                     The Community Council will also be involved in discussions on  
                     the development of the ordinance to allow revisions to the  
                     height measurement technique, parking requirements and lot  
                     coverage limitations.  
  
    Timeframe:       Fall 2002 for next meeting to Community Council meeting,  
                     Winter/Spring 2003 for additional presentations  
  
    Resource:        HomeSight, DCLU  
  
    f. At the request of the Jackson Place Community, HomeSight will  
    pursue the creation of a P-Patch on this property for the use of the  
    owners of Davis Place Condos and the greater community.  
  
    Deliverable:     HomeSight will meet with P-Patch staff to determine  
                     feasibility and if feasible to determine next steps and  
                     schedule.  
  
    Timeframe:       Fall 2002  
  
    Resource:        HomeSight  
  
    g. HomeSight will explore the feasibility of upgrading its standard  
    exterior finishes and landscaping in order to create an attractive  
    development of new homes.  
  
    Deliverable:     HomeSight will explore different approaches to  
                     accomplish this and to make decision of what it will  
                     implement.  
  
    Timeframe:       Fall 2002 - Spring 2003  
  
    Resource:        HomeSight  
  
    6.  Moving into the Future  
  
    SDOT, DCLU, Seattle Office of Housing (OH) and HomeSight will document  
    the work under this contract in order to make justifiable  
    recommendations for changes to reduce barriers to creating attractive  
    and affordable housing within the City of Seattle.  
  
    Subtasks:  
  
    a. SDOT, DCLU, OH and HomeSight will document key decisions and status  
    of progress.  
  
    Deliverable:     HomeSight and City will produce a project status report  
  
    Timeframe:       March 2003  
  
    Resource:        HomeSight - primary; SDOT, DCLU and OH -- secondary  
  
    b. SDOT, DCLU, OH and HomeSight will independently and jointly analyze  
    impacts of entire scope of work.  This analysis shall include an  
    evaluation of how the project met both the team's and CTED's criteria  
    for success.  As part of this effort, the team will evaluate effects  
    of each change made as a result of this scope of work and it will make  
    recommendations for regulatory and/or process changes considered  
    beneficial.  
  
    Deliverable:     HomeSight and City will produce a final report.  
  
    Timeframe:       June 2003  
  
    Resource:        SDOT, DCLU, OH, HomeSight  
  
    7.  Reporting  
  
    To keep CTED informed of progress to completion of contract.  
  
    Subtask:  
  
    a. Status reports of progress to date in completion of scope of work  
    will be submitted to CTED on December 31, 2002 and March 31, 2003.  A  
    close out Report demonstrating completion of the contract and  
    providing financial information will be submitted to CTED on June 30,  
    2003.  
  
    Resource:     SDOT, DCLU, OH, HomeSight  
  
    Project Budget:  
    Total award from CTED:                                         $190,000  
    DCLU for tasks designated in this scope of work:                 $5,000  
    SDOT for tasks designated in this scope of work:                 $5,000  
    OH for tasks designated in this scope of work:                   $5,000  
  
    HomeSight for costs of the project to the City (land  
    acquisition and permitting) in order to install upgraded  
    exterior finishes and landscaping                              $175,000  
  
    The City of Seattle will execute an agreement with HomeSight, and  
    consultants for those tasks for which they are responsible and for  
    which they are being compensated by funding from CTED through the City  
    of Seattle under this Agreement.  
  
    t  
