* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114515**   
**Ordinance Number: 121162**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Land Use Code; amending Section 23.84.038 of the Seattle Municipal Code in order to clarify the definition for passenger terminals.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 27, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 4, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 4, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 31, 2003   
**Committee:** Land Use   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, TRANSPORTATION-FACILITIES, MARINE-TERMINALS, RAILROAD-STATIONS, PUBLIC-TRANSIT, LAND-TRANSPORTATION  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 120443  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114515.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114515  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Land Use Code; amending Section 23.84.038  
    of the Seattle Municipal Code in order to clarify the definition for  
    passenger terminals.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Section 23.84.038 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC),  
    which section was last amended by Ordinance 120443, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.84.038  Definitions -- T.  
  
    "Transportation facilities" means one (1) of the following commercial  
    uses:  
  
    6.  "Passenger terminal" means a transportation facility where  
    passengers embark on or disembark from carriers such as ferries,  
    trains, buses or planes that provide transportation to passengers for  
    hire by land, sea or air. located on a sea or land  
    transportation line, where people transfer from one (1) mode of  
    vehicular transportation to  another or between carriers within the  
    same mode. Such carriers shall have regularly scheduled routes,  
    and may include vans, trains, ships, tour buses or boats, or other  
    types of transportation.)) Passenger terminals typically include  
    some or all of the following: may include ticket  
    counters, waiting areas, management offices, baggage handling  
    facilities, restroom facilities, and shops and  
    restaurants.  A passenger terminal use on the waterfront may  
    include moorage for cruise ships and/or vessels engaged in  
    transporting passengers for hire. Activities commonly found aboard  
    such vessels, whether moored or under way, that are incidental to the  
    transport of passengers shall be considered part of the passenger  
    terminal use and shall not be treated as separate uses. Metro  
    street bus stops and light rail transit stations are not included in  
    this definition.  Also excluded is the use of sites where  
    passengers occasionally embark on or disembark from transportation in  
    a manner that is incidental to a different established principal use  
    of the site.  
  
    Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _________________, 2003.  
  
              ___________________________________  
  
              President __________ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2003.  
  
              ___________________________________  
  
              Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2003.  
  
              __________________________________  
  
              City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    Miles Mayhew/MM  
  
    Passenger Definition LU Code Ord Final.doc  
  
    February 25, 2002  
  
    version #1a  
