* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114660**   
**Ordinance Number: 121239**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, repealing Ordinances 121208 and 121224 relating to a rezone of property located at 11332 Lake City Way Northeast, from Single Family 7200 (SF 7200) to Lowrise 2 Residential Commercial (L2-RC), withdrawing the Council's previous Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Decision on this matter, and directing further action. (Petition of David Brown Associates for MMR Corporation, C.F. 305399, Application No. 2100337)  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 11, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Licata, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 11, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 11, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 11, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK   
  
**Index Terms:** REZONES, LAKE-CITY, ADULT-ENTERTAINMENT  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 121208, 121224; Related: CF 305399  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, repealing Ordinances  
    121208 and  121224 relating to a rezone of property located at 11332  
    Lake City Way Northeast, from Single Family 7200 (SF 7200) to Lowrise  
    2 Residential Commercial (L2-RC), withdrawing the Council's previous  
    Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Decision on this matter, and  
    directing further action.  (Petition of David Brown Associates for  
    MMR Corporation, C.F. 305399, Application No. 2100337)  
  
    WHEREAS, Council action on rezone requests are quasi-judicial actions  
    subject to the statute on appearance of fairness, RCW chapter 42.36,  
    and to the appearance of fairness rules contained in the Council's  
    Rules for Quasi-Judicial Proceedings Before the City Council; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Council desires to address concerns regarding the  
    appearance of fairness; and  
  
    WHEREAS, City Council desires to repeal its prior ordinances and  
    withdraw its prior decision on this rezone application;  
  
    NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Ordinance 121224 is hereby repealed.  
  
    Section 2.  The Council's Findings, Conclusions and Decision in C.F.  
    305399 (App. 2100337) are hereby withdrawn.  
  
    Section 3.  The Clerk is hereby directed to provide copies of this  
    Ordinance to the persons and in the manner provided in SMC 23.76.056  
    for providing copies of the Council's Findings, Conclusions and  
    Decision.  
  
    Section 4.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 5.  This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its passage and approval by the City  
    Council.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2003,  
    and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage  
    this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      President of the City Council  
  
        Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    smw/GB  
  
    Ordinan4.doc  
  
    V4  
  
    August 11, 2003  
