* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114657**   
**Ordinance Number: 121289**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to City real property; authorizing the transfer of jurisdiction of certain property in Block 12, Eastern Addition to the Town of Seattle commonly referred to as 199 Boren Avenue (PMA 43) from the Fleets and Facilities Department to the Department of Parks and Recreation for use as a park.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 29, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 10, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 9, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 11, 2003   
**Committee:** Parks, Education and Libraries   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, PARKS, OPEN-SPACE-LAND, CENTRAL-AREA, FLEETS-AND-FACILITIES-DEPARTMENT  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114657.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114657  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE ________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to City real property; authorizing the transfer  
    of jurisdiction of certain property in Block 12, Eastern Addition to  
    the Town of Seattle commonly referred to as 199 Boren Avenue (PMA 43)  
    from the Fleets and Facilities Department to the Department of Parks  
    and Recreation for use as a park.  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 76023 provided, among other things, for the taking  
    of land for general municipal purposes by purchase and/or  
    condemnation and provided for the payment of land taken for general  
    municipal purposes from the General Fund; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 77073 accepted the condemnation awards of  
    Ordinance 76023 and made appropriations from the Cumulative Reserve  
    Fund for the lands taken for general municipal purposes in connection  
    therewith; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Central Area Neighborhood Plan recommended development  
    of a community park at this site; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 120024 authorized the Neighborhood Parks, Green  
    Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy (2000 Parks Levy), which was approved by  
    the voters of Seattle and included funding for development of a park  
    (Spruce and Squire Park) at this site; and  
  
    WHEREAS, acquisition of park property is supported by the Cumulative  
    Reserve Fund; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Fleets and Facilities Department and the Department of  
    Parks and Recreation recommend transferring jurisdiction of the  
    property described in Section 1 for use as a park; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
      Section 1.  The Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department is  
    hereby authorized to  
  
    transfer to the Department of Parks and Recreation jurisdiction of  
    the following described property:  
  
    The south 30 feet of the west 60 feet of Lot 4, and those portions of  
    Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 12, Eastern Addition to the Town of Seattle,  
    according to the plat thereof recorded in Vol. 1 of Plats, page 43,  
    records of King County, Washington, lying northeasterly of Boren  
    Avenue, as established by City of Seattle Ordinance 76023.  
  
    The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation is  
    hereby authorized to accept jurisdiction of said property and shall  
    manage and control said property for its intended use as a park.  
  
      Section 2.  Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and  
    prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Kennedy/et  
  
    PMA43-Ordinance  
  
    July 11, 2003  
  
    version 4a  
  
    - 1 -  
  
    PRELIMINARY REPORT  
  
    EVALUATION OF PMA #43  
  
    Resolution 29799 directs the Executive to make its recommendations on  
    the reuse or disposal of excess property on a case by case basis,  
    using the Procedures for Evaluation of the Reuse and Disposal of the  
    City's Real Property adopted by that resolution.  Additionally, the  
    Resolution identifies guidelines, which are to be considered in  
    making a recommendation.  This report addresses each of the  
    guidelines outlined in Resolution 29799 in support of the  
    recommendation.  
  
    Property Management Area:   PMA #43 - East side of Boren Avenue  
    between East Spruce Street and East Fir Street.  
  
    BACKGROUND INFORMATION  
  
    Legal Description:  The south 30 feet of the west 60 feet of Lot 4,  
    and those portions of Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 12, Eastern Addition to  
    the Town of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Vol. 1  
    of Plats, page 43, records of King County, Washington, lying  
    northeasterly of Boren Avenue, as established by City of Seattle  
    Ordinance # 76023.  
  
    Physical Description and Related Factors:  The site is irregularly  
    shaped with a lot area of 12,537 square feet, according to the King  
    County Assessor records.  
  
    GUIDELINE A:  CONSISTENCY  
  
    The analysis should consider the purpose for which the property was  
    originally acquired, funding sources used to acquire the property,  
    terms and conditions of original acquisition, the title or deed  
    conveying the property, or any other contract or instrument by which  
    the City is bound or to which the property is subject, and City,  
    state or federal ordinances, statues and regulations.  
  
    Ordinance 76023 provided, among other things, for the taking of land  
    for general municipal purposes by purchase and/or condemnation and  
    provided for the payment therefor. Ordinance 77073 accepted the  
    condemnation awards of Ordinance 76023 and made from the Cumulative  
    Reserve Fund in connection therewith. The property was set aside for  
    General Municipal Purposes since it was not needed for street  
    purposes. No municipal use of the property has been made since its  
    acquisition.  
  
    Guideline B:  Compatibility and Suitability  
  
    The recommendation should reflect an assessment of the potential for  
    use of the property in support of adopted Neighborhood Plans, as or  
    in support of low-income housing, in support of economic development,  
    in support of affordable housing, for park or open space; in support  
    of Sound Transit Link Light Rail station area development; as or in  
    support of child care facilities, and in support of other priorities  
    reflected in adopted City policies.  
  
    Context.  Transferring the jurisdiction for this property is  
    consistent with the Central Area Neighborhood Plan (Plan Matrix  
    Number: NA-16). The Neighborhood Plan  recommended using Pro Parks  
    2000 Levy funding for development of a community park.  
  
    Range of Options.  Other options contemplating a reuse of this  
    property as anything but a community park were not investigated due  
    to the importance of the neighborhood plan.  
  
    Guideline C:  Other Factors  
  
    The recommendation should consider the highest and best use of the  
    property, compatibility of the proposed use with the physical  
    characteristics of the property and with surrounding uses,  
  
    timing and term of the proposed use, appropriateness of the  
    consideration to be received, unique attributes that make the  
    property hard to replace, potential for consolidation with adjacent  
    public property to accomplish future goals and objectives, conditions  
    in the real estate market, and known environmental factors that make  
    affect the value of the property.  
  
    Highest and Best Use:  The property has not been appraised. From a  
    market perspective, the highest and best use of the site would be  
    development consistent with current zoning, MR; however, the  
    configuration of the property and the location make development  
    difficult.  
  
    Compatibility with surrounding uses:  Low-rise apartments and mid-  
    rise apartments make up the balance of the neighborhood. Development  
    of a community park will benefit the neighborhood.  
  
    Potential for Consolidation with adjacent public property:  There is  
    no adjacent public property available for consolidation.  
  
    Timing and Term of Proposed Use:  The Parks Department is anxious for  
    the property to be transferred to begin development.  
  
     Appropriateness of the consideration:  No funding is involved in  
    this transfer of jurisdiction from Fleets and Facilities Department  
    to the Parks Department. The current fair market value for the site  
    has not been determined, as this is a transfer of jurisdiction  
    between two General Fund departments.  
  
    Known environmental factors:  There are no known environmental  
    problems and no clean-up or other remedial treatment indicated for  
    the property.  
  
    Guideline D:  Sale  
  
    The recommendation should evaluate the potential for selling the  
    property to non-City public entities and to members of the general  
    public.  
  
    Given that the importance of the neighborhood plan and the continued  
    interest for a community park and the configuration of the property,  
    it would not be in the best interest of the City to recommend selling  
    the property for any other use.  
  
    RECOMMENDATION  
  
    The Fleets and Facilities Department and the Department of Parks and  
    Recreation jointly recommend that the jurisdiction for this property  
    be transferred from the Fleets and Facilities Department to the  
    Department of Parks and Recreation.  
  
    PROPERTY REVIEW PROCESS DETERMINATION FORM  
  
    Property Name:  
  
    Boren and Spruce  
  
    __________________________________________________________  
  
    Address:  
  
    100 Boren Avenue  
  
    PMA ID:  
  
    43  
  
           Subject Parcel #:  
  
    667  
  
    Dept./Dept ID:  
  
    FFD  
  
    Current Use:  
  
    vacant  
  
    Area (Sq. Ft.):  
  
    12,537  
  
    Zoning:  
  
    MR  
  
    Est. Value:  
  
    $501,400 (assessed value)  
  
    Assessed Value:  
  
    $501,400  
  
    PROPOSED USES AND RECOMMENDED USE  
  
    Department/Governmental Agencies:  
  
    Proposed Use:  
  
    Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
    Community Park  
  
    Other Parties wishing to acquire:  
  
    Proposed Use:  
  
    None  
  
    RES'S RECOMMENDED USE: Transfer to Parks for community park.  
  
    PROPERTY REVIEW PROCESS DETERMINATION (circle appropriate response)  
  
    1.)  Is more than one City dept/Public Agency wishing to acquire?  
  
    No / Yes  
  
    15  
  
    2.) Are there any pending community proposals for Reuse/ Disposal?  
  
    No / Yes  
  
    10  
  
    3.) Have citizens, community groups and/or other interested parties  
    contacted the City regarding any of the  proposed options?  
  
    No / Yes  
  
    10  
  
    4.) Will consideration be other than cash?  
  
    No / Yes  
  
    10  
  
    5.) Is Sale or Trade to a private party being recommended?  
  
    No / Yes  
  
    25  
  
    6.) Will the proposed use require changes in zoning/other reg's?  
  
    No / Yes  
  
    20  
  
    7.) Is the estimated Fair Market Value between $250,000-$1,000,000?  
  
    No / Yes  
  
    10  
  
    8.) Is the estimated Fair Market Value over $1,000,000?  
  
    No/ Yes  
  
    45  
  
                              Total Number of Points Awarded for "Yes"  
    Responses:  
  
    20  
  
    Property Classification for purposes of Disposal review:     Simple  
    /   Complex (circle one)  (a score of 45+ points results in "Complex"  
    classification)  
  
    Signature: John Kennedy     Department: FFD    Date:  03/11/2003  
  
    Attachment 1  
  
      1  ATTACH 1 - PMA 43  
