* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114619**   
**Ordinance Number: 121221**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the acquisition of certain real property located in the Taylor Creek area at 10020 68th Avenue South, Seattle, for control of storm water runoff and fish enhancement; and authorizing acceptance of the deed for such property.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 14, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 22, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 21, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 7, 2003   
**Committee:** Water and Health   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, RAINIER-VIEW, RAINIER-VALLEY, RIVERS-AND-STREAMS, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION, FISH, DRAINAGE, FLOOD-CONTROL-AND-DRAINAGE, STORMS, SURFACE-WATER  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114619.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114619  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the  
    acquisition of certain real property located in the Taylor Creek area  
    at 10020 68th Avenue South, Seattle, for control of storm water runoff  
    and fish enhancement; and authorizing acceptance of the deed for such  
    property.  
  
    WHEREAS, Seattle Public Utilities has completed a detailed study of  
    the Taylor Creek drainage system, that showed the need for  
    improvements to control storm water runoff and remove obstacles to  
    fish passage; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Seattle Public Utilities has examined alternative routes to  
    accomplish such improvements and has concluded that the best route  
    requires acquisition of the property described in Section 1; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 120973 appropriated funding for drainage and  
    wastewater system projects, including control of storm water runoff  
    and improvement of fish passage; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1. Seattle Public Utilities is authorized to acquire, for and  
    on behalf of the City of Seattle, the property legally described as  
  
    Lots 5 and 6, Block 4, Sturtevant's Rainier Beach Villa Tracts,  
    according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 16 of Plats, Page 32,  
    in King County, Washington.  
  
    (tax parcel #807300-0190-05) (the "Property") for a total purchase  
    price of $115,000.  
  
      Section 2.  Upon delivery of a statutory warranty deed for the  
    Property satisfactory to the Director of Seattle Public Utilities or  
    his designee, the Director or his designee is authorized to record the  
    deed and accept it on behalf of the City of Seattle by indicating his  
    acceptance on the deed.  The Property thus acquired shall be placed  
    under the jurisdiction of Seattle Public Utilities.  
  
    Section 3. Acquisition of the Property shall be funded through the  
    Taylor Creek Culverts, Phase 2 (C399315), for which funds were  
    appropriated in Ordinance 120973.  
  
    Section 4.  Any act pursuant to and prior to the effective date of  
    this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 5.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    R. Perkerewicz: FE Moody  
  
    June 12, 2003  
  
    Taylor Creek Property  
  
    (Ver. 3)  
