* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114615**   
**Ordinance Number: 121225**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.04.030 to revise the definition of "seniority" to reflect the City's ability to accurately record employees' actual service.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 21, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 30, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 29, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 23, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** CITY-EMPLOYEES, EMPLOYMENT, PERSONNEL-ADMINISTRATION  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 107790  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114615.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114615  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.04.030 to  
    revise the definition of "seniority" to reflect the City's ability to  
    accurately record employees' actual service.  
  
    WHEREAS, the calculation for employee seniority currently provides  
    that unpaid absences up to 15 days are not deducted from service  
    credit; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City's personnel and payroll recordkeeping systems are  
    capable of recording and reporting employees' pay and non-pay hours  
    such that comparisons of actual service can be made accurately and  
    comprehensively; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.04.030, Definitions,  
    Ordinance 107790 as amended, is hereby further amended as follows:  
  
    Unless another meaning is clearly indicated from the context, as used  
    in this title:  
  
    1.  "Actual service" means the number of regular paid hours  
    accumulated by an employee in a class or title.  
  
    2.  "Appointing authority" means a person authorized by ordinance or  
    Charter to employ others on behalf of the City, usually the head of a  
    department.  
  
    3.  "Certify" for Public Safety Civil Service employees means verify  
    to the appointing authority that a list of names of candidates for  
    employment has been selected from the list of persons tested and found  
    eligible for employment.  
  
    4.  "City" means The City of Seattle.  
  
    5.  "City Council" means the City Council of The City of Seattle.  
  
    6.  "Class" means any group of positions sufficiently similar that the  
    same title may equitably be applied to all.  
  
    7.  "Class series" means two (2) or more classes which perform similar  
    tasks or work but which differ in degree of responsibility and  
    difficulty.  
  
    8.  "Days" means calendar days.  
  
    9.  "Demotion" means the movement of an employee from a higher class  
    to a lower class, for cause.  
  
    10. "Director" means the Personnel Director or his/her designated  
    representative.  
  
    11. "Discharge" means a separation from employment for cause.  
  
    12. "Employee" means a person employed in a position on a full-time or  
    part-time basis.  
  
    13. "Employing unit" means any department of the City and, within the  
    Executive Department, any office created by ordinance.  
  
    14. "Exempt employee" means one who serves at the discretion of the  
    appointing authority in a position which is exempted by the City  
    Charter (Note 1) or SMC Chapter 4.13 from  
  
    compliance with this chapter regarding selection, discipline and  
    discharge of employees, and appeals of personnel actions to the Civil  
    Service Commission.  
  
    15. "Grant-funded position" means a position funded fifty (50%)  
    percent or more by a categorical grant to carry out a specific project  
    or goal and all positions funded by public employment  
  
    programs. For the purpose of this chapter, the term "categorical  
    grant" shall not include financial assistance provided to the City in  
    the form of Community Development Block Grant funds, Urban Development  
    Action Grant funds, General Revenue Sharing funds, and any funds  
    provided under a statutory entitlement or distributed on the basis of  
    a fixed formula including but not limited to relative population.  
  
    16. "Grievance" means a dispute between an employee and his/her  
    supervisor(s) or employing unit based upon the employee's good faith  
    belief that an aspect of his/her employment has been adversely  
    affected and desire for remedial action.  
  
    17. "Hourly employee" means one who is subject to the overtime  
    provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).  
  
    18. "Inappropriate pressure" means any suggestion (oral or written  
    communication) to any City employee, the effect of which would either:  
    (a) preclude job advertising and open consideration of qualified  
    applicants, or (b) result in the selection of an employee for reasons  
    other than relative ability, knowledge or skill.  
  
    19. "Layoff" means the discontinuation of employment and suspension of  
    pay of any regular or probationary employee because of lack of work,  
    lack of funds, or through reorganization.  
  
    20. "Misconduct" means the intentional violation of a standard of  
    conduct established by statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, policy or  
    directive, or common law, or the violation of such standard as a  
    result of recklessness or gross negligence.  
  
    21. "Part-time position" means a position that has been designated as  
    "part-time" in, and created by, the annual budget or by another  
    ordinance and that requires an average of twenty (20) hours or more  
    but less than forty (40) hours of work per week during a year.  
  
    22. "Probationary employee" means an employee who has been appointed  
    to a position within the classified service but who has not completed  
    a one (1) year period of probationary employment.  
  
    23. "Promotion" means any appointment to a higher level classification  
    or position which occurs subsequent to an employee's initial  
    appointment.  
  
    24. "Provisional employee" for Public Safety Civil Service employees  
    means an employee who was appointed to a position for which no  
    register existed.  
  
    25. "Reduction" means the movement of an employee from a higher-paid  
    position to a lower-paid position, not for cause.  
  
    26. "Register" for Public Safety Civil Service employees means a list  
    of candidates for employment who have passed an employment  
    examination, whose names may be chosen and certified by the Commission  
    for submission to the appointing authority for consideration for  
    employment.  
  
    27. "Regular employee" means an employee who has been appointed to a  
    position within the classified service and who has completed a one (1)  
    year probationary period of employment.  
  
    28. "Reinstatement" means reappointment of a regular employee from a  
    reinstatement list to a position in a class in which regular status  
    was previously held.  
  
    29. "Sabbatical leave" means an unpaid leave of absence for which an  
    employee may apply upon completion of seven (7) continuous years of  
    full-time service, after which leave the employee is entitled to  
    return to the position from which the leave was granted or to a  
    position in the same employing unit that is substantially similar in  
    level of duties, responsibilities and compensation.  
  
    30. "Salaried employee" is one who is exempt from the provisions of  
    the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).  
  
    31. "Seniority" means a regular employee's length of continuous  
    service in his or her present class and all higher classes since  
    original regular appointment to that class, including all periods  
    of unpaid leave of absence or suspension that are for less than  
    fifteen (15) days.  
  
    32. "Suspension" means the temporary discontinuation of an employee  
    from employment for a  
  
    specified period for cause or pending determination of charges against  
    said employee, which charges could result in discharge or demotion.  
  
    33. "Temporary worker" means a person who is employed to fill a  
    temporary, emergency or short-term need. The term includes persons  
    employed in seasonal or intermittent positions and workers employed  
    less than an average of twenty (20) hours per week during a year.  
    Except as may be provided by ordinance or labor contract, temporary  
    workers shall be exempt from the  
  
    provisions of this chapter.  
  
    Section 2.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Norma McKinney/Kathy Steinmeyer  
  
    SMC404030  
  
    February 24, 2003  
  
    Version #1  
