* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114673**   
**Ordinance Number: 121271**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Neighborhoods; authorizing implementation of certain Neighborhood Matching Fund projects in 2003.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 15, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Drago)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 26, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 26, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 2, 2003   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Arts and Civil Rights   
**Sponsor:** LICATA   
  
**Index Terms:** NEIGHBORHOOD-MATCHING-FUND, GRANTS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114673.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114673  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Neighborhoods; authorizing  
    implementation of certain Neighborhood Matching Fund projects in  
    2003.  
  
    WHEREAS, Resolution 27709 established a Neighborhood Planning and  
    Assistance Program, including a Neighborhood Matching Fund and a  
    Citywide Review Team, to provide support for neighborhood improvement  
    activities, leveraging citizen contributions and volunteer hours for  
    a variety of neighborhood-based planning, development, and  
    improvement projects; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Resolution 27965, and subsequent revisions, set forth the  
    City of Seattle's Neighborhood Matching Fund Application and Review  
    Guidelines; and  
  
    WHEREAS, in the 2003 budget $3,700,000 was appropriated to the  
    Neighborhood Matching Subfund to implement certain Neighborhood  
    Matching Fund projects; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Mayor and Citywide Review Team are recommending  
    identical Neighborhood Matching Fund projects for funding; NOW,  
    THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
      Section 1.  The Department of Neighborhoods (hereinafter  
    "Department") is hereby authorized to proceed with implementation of  
    the following projects as provided below:  
  
    A.  Neighborhood Matching Fund Projects        Authorized  
                                                                    Allocation  
                                                                    from NMF  
  
    Benefit Park Improvement                                   $100,000  
  
    Meadowbrook Play Area Renovation                            $86,000  
  
    Salmon Bay School Sports Field                              $90,000  
  
    Cascade Eco-Renovation                                      $35,000  
  
    Greenwood Sidewalks                                        $100,000  
  
    Magnolia Gateway Implementation                             $68,000  
  
    Hitts Hill Urban Forest Reclamation                         $50,000  
  
    Expansion and Beautification of Town Hall                   $75,000  
  
    Whittier Pocket Park                                        $90,000  
  
    Sandel Park Activity and Safety Upgrade                    $100,000  
  
    CAY South Delridge Latino Organizing Project                $34,400  
  
    Sanislo/Neighborhood Walkway                                $38,100  
  
    Kiwanis Ravine-Wolfe Creek                                  $37,089  
    Restoration/Stabilization  
  
                  Total Large Projects Fund Awards  
                                                               $903,589  
  
    Total Neighborhood Matching Fund Subfund  
    Allocation                                                 $903,589  
  
      Expenditures may be made for the above projects upon vouchers drawn  
    by the Director of the Department from expenditure allowances and  
    funds appropriated to the Neighborhood Matching Subfund in the 2003  
    budget.  The Department can encumber funds in the amounts  
    appropriated.  
  
      Section 2.  The Department shall have the authority to administer  
    the City's public works contracting process and execute contracts for  
    any Neighborhood Matching Fund public works projects funded by this  
    Ordinance.  Any public works contracts must comply with related state  
    and local law requirements.  The Department is authorized to enter  
    into agreements with public and private entities to implement the  
    projects listed in Section 1.  In the case of an agreement with a  
    private entity, the agreement shall specifically describe the public  
    benefit received by the City.  
  
    Section 3.  The Department is hereby authorized to reallocate funds  
    in the Neighborhood Matching Subfund allocated above among the  
    projects identified in Section 1 of this ordinance as necessary,  
    provided that the sum of such changes shall not exceed One Hundred  
    and Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000), and further provided that the  
    Mayor or his designee notify in writing the Chair of the  
    Neighborhoods, Arts, and Civil Rights Committee of the City Council  
    of the nature of and reasons for the reallocation.  
  
    Section 4.  Appropriations made from the Neighborhood Matching  
    Subfund shall not lapse and shall be carried over each year until  
    fully expended, abandoned or reappropriated to other authorized  
    activities.  
  
      Section 5.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
      Section 6.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      PASSED by the City Council the ______ day of ______________, 2003,  
    and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage  
    this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
  
      ____________________________________  
  
      President of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2003.  
  
      ____________________________________  
  
      Greg Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2003.  
  
      ____________________________________  
  
      City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Bernie Matsuno/JLB  
  
    2003B Large Projects Ordinance  
  
    August 5, 2003  
  
    version #2  
  
    Neighborhood Matching Fund  
  
    2003B Large Projects Awards  
  
      Project       Project      Neighborhood  Match  NMF  
  
      Nbr  Sector  District  Manager  Project Name  Neighborhood  
    Organization    Amount  Amount  
  
      B03027  Southeast  Greater Duwamish  Sheppard  Benefit Park  
    Improvement Project  Friends of Benefit Park  No  $105,103  $100,000  
  
      Description:  The Benefit Park Improvement Project entails the  
    initiation and completion of  
  
      construction projects necessary to improve the safety, beauty, and  
    usability of the  
  
      park.  The project is spearheaded by a neighborhood volunteer  
    organization,  
  
      Friends of Benefit Park, and fiscally managed by the Seattle Parks  
    Foundation.  
  
      B03028  Northeast  Northeast  Ruth  Meadowbrook Play Area  
    Renovation  Friends of Annie's Playground  No  $86,660  $86,000  
  
      Description:  The project is a renovation of the Meadowbrook Play  
    Area, to provide a new  
  
      playground for children of all ages.  The plan includes playground  
    design and  
  
      installation of new play equipment, circulation paths, seating  
    areas, and landscaping.  
  
      B03029  Northwest  Ballard  Ames  Salmon Bay School Sports Field  
    Salmon Bay Sports Field   No  $526,150  $90,000  
  
      Committee  
  
      Description:  Working in partnership with the Seattle School  
    District and the City of Seattle  
  
      Departments of Parks and Recreation and Neighborhoods, this project  
    will convert  
  
      an asphalt-covered, 350' x 200' school yard into an artificial  
    turf, mixed-use sports  
  
      facility, including a U-10 soccer field, 1/4 K track, and  
    basketball area.  
  
      Construction drawings and specifications are in place.  
  
      B03031  West  Lake Union  Deboo  Cascade Eco-Renovation Project  
    Cascade Neighborhood Council  Yes  $398,486  $35,000  
  
      Description:  The objective of the project is to transform a 4,000  
    sq ft community center in the  
  
      heart of the Cascade neighborhood into a vibrant, environmentally  
    responsible,  
  
      learning/gathering center.  The eco-renovation will use sustainable  
    design principles  
  
      and incorporate hands-on demonstration projects such as utilizing  
    sunlight for  
  
      electricity, harvesting rainwater, green roofing, a living machine  
    for on-site waste  
  
      treatment, etc.  Contractors will complete major structural  
    elements of the  
  
      renovation, while community volunteers, local schools and  
    university students will  
  
      work to complete smaller projects.  
  
      B03033  Northwest  Northwest  Sheppard  Greenwood Sidewalks Project  
    Greenwood Community Council  Yes  $100,000  $100,000  
  
      Description:  The goal of this project is to build sidewalks and  
    calm traffic on streets connecting  
  
      the new Greenwood Park with the neighborhood business district.  
    These several  
  
      square blocks have heavy pedestrian use, and very heavy cut-through  
    traffic.  
  
      B03034  West  Magnolia/QA  Deboo  Magnolia Gateway Implementation  
    Magnolia Chamber of   No  $76,395  $68,000  
  
      Project  
  
      Description:  The aim of this project is to create an inviting link  
    between Magnolia's business  
  
      center and the adjacent park facilities to the north. We will  
    contract with a pair of  
  
      local metal artists to create the centerpiece of the project, a  
    gateway featuring  
  
      blossoms of our neighborhood's identifying plants: magnolia and  
    madrona.  
  
      Project       Project      Neighborhood  Match  NMF  
  
      Nbr  Sector  District  Manager  Project Name  Neighborhood  
    Organization    Amount  Amount  
  
      B03036  Southeast  Southeast  Takekawa  Hitts Hill Urban Forest  
    Reclamation  Friends of Hitts Hill  Yes  $50,540  $50,000  
  
      Description:  This project would further rehabilitate a former  
    industrial site into a healthy urban  
  
      forest/community park in the Rainier Valley.  Our neighborhood  
    group would  
  
      implement a Parks approved vegetation management plan, address  
    boundary and  
  
      security concerns, engage in community outreach, install approved  
    site  
  
      enhancements, and develop partnerships for future work.  
  
      B03039  East  East  Owens  Expansion and Beautification of Town  
    Town Hall Association  Yes  $177,609  $75,000  
  
      Hall  
  
      Description:  This project will create a new performance/forum  
    space at Town Hall, a community  
  
      cultural center on First Hill, along with making upgrades to the  
    building exterior.  By  
  
      offering another venue option, and improving the visibility of the  
    center, Town Hall  
  
      will better serve its users and neighborhood.  
  
      B03040  Northwest  Northwest  Ames  Whittier Pocket Park  6th  
    Avenue NW Pocket Park   No  $95,274  $90,000  
  
      Association  
  
      Description:  This project will build a multi-use neighborhood  
    pocket park on nearly one-quarter  
  
      acre, including natural play elements, sitting areas, open lawn  
    space, walking path,  
  
      and raised community "stage."  The park is designed to accommodate  
    the diverse  
  
      ages and cultural interests of our residents in the Whittier/Lower  
  
      Phinney/Greenwood neighborhood.  
  
      B03043  Northwest  Northwest  Ames  Sandel Park Activity and Safety  
    Friends & Neighbors of Sandel   Yes  $189,500  $100,000  
  
      Upgrade  Park  
  
      Description:  Friends and Neighbors of Sandel Park would like to  
    begin construction of  
  
      improvements that park users, the Greenwood community, Parks  
    Department and  
  
      the Seattle Police Department have identified will help increase  
    the safety and  
  
      enjoyment of our neighborhood park.  Improvements include  
    reconfiguring and  
  
      enlarging the current play area for better visibility and increased  
    play value,  
  
      resurfacing and other improvements to the basketball court,  
    securing entrances to  
  
      the restroom building, increasing lighting in critical areas,  
    increasing visibility into  
  
      the park and increasing opportunities for more positive active and  
    passive recreational use.  
  
      B03046  Southwest  Delridge  Carlson  CAY South Delridge Latino  
    Organizing   Community Alliance for Youth  No  $19,400  $34,400  
  
      Project  
  
      Description:  This project will create a Latino neighborhood club  
    which will meet monthly, interview  
  
      Spanish-speaking families on their perspectives on public safety  
    and other related  
  
      issues, and connect the Latino community to existing neighborhood  
    organizations.  
  
      B03048  Southwest  Delridge  Ames  Sanislo/Neighborhood Walkway  
    Project  Neighbors of 21st and 22nd Ave  Yes  $42,228  $38,100  
  
       SW  
  
      Description:  This neighborhood physical improvement project will  
    build a walkway to improve  
  
      public safety along 21st Ave SW and Sanislo School.  This  
    residential street  
  
      currently has no sidewalks or drainage improvements.  There are  
    significant  
  
      pedestrian and traffic safety concerns due to topography, adjacency  
    to Sanislo  
  
      and a new low-income/homeless transitional housing development.  
  
      Project       Project      Neighborhood  Match  NMF  
  
      Nbr  Sector  District  Manager  Project Name  Neighborhood  
    Organization    Amount  Amount  
  
      B03050  West  Magnolia/QA  Deboo  Kiwanis Ravine-Wolfe Creek  
    Heron Habitat Helpers  No  $56,096  $37,089  
  
      Restoration/Stabilization  
  
      Description:  The project will restore native vegetation,  
    regenerate Wolfe Creek shoreline, and  
  
      stabilize steep slopes in Kiwanis Ravine's great blue heron  
    rookery.  Dumped  
  
      material and invasive plants will be removed.  The management and  
    monitoring plan  
  
      which will be followed retains existing native trees and provides a  
    template for  
  
      mixed-forest restoration.  
  
      NMF Totals  Neighborhood Planning  
  
      Projects  
  
          Match  NMF  Number of  NMF  
  
      Sector Totals:  Projects  Amount  Amount    Amount  
  
      Total For  East  1  $177,609  $75,000  1  $75,000  
  
      Total For  Northeast  1  $86,660  $86,000  0  $0  
  
      Total For  Northwest  4  $910,924  $380,000  2  $200,000  
  
      Total For  Southeast  2  $155,643  $150,000  1  $50,000  
  
      Total For  Southwest  2  $61,628  $72,500  1  $38,100  
  
      Total For  West  3  $530,977  $140,089  1  $35,000  
  
      Grand Total:  13  $1,923,441  $903,589  6  $398,100  
  
    8/05/2003  
  
    1      Attachment 1 to 2003B Large Projects Fiscal Note  
