* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114692**   
**Ordinance Number: 121280**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and ordering the payment thereof.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 15, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Drago)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 26, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 26, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 15, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** FINANCE  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and  
    ordering the payment thereof.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    SECTION 1.  Payment of the sum of Eight Million, Six Hundred Thirty  
    Eight Thousand, Six Hundred Forty Four and 56/100 dollars  
    ($8,638,644.56) on Summit mechanical warrants numbered, 4000722408 -  
    4000724694 plus manual or cancellation issues for claims, plus  
    Electronic Financial Transactions (EFT) of Fifty Six Million, One  
    Hundred Eighty Six Thousand, Five Hundred Eighty Eight and 97/100  
    dollars ($56,186,588.97) are presented for ratification by the City  
    Council per Chapter 42.23 RCA.  
  
     SECTION 2. That any act consistent with the authority and prior to  
    the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and  
    confirmed.  
  
    SECTION 3. This ordinance, being an ordinance required for the  
    payment of salaries or current expenses shall take effect and be in  
    force immediately upon its approval, if approved by the Mayor;  
    otherwise it shall take effect at the time it shall become a law  
    under the provisions of the City Charter.  
  
    Passed by the City Council on the 15h day of Sept. 2003 and signed by  
    me in open session in authentication of its passage this Sept. 15,  
    2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      President ___________ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    Shields  
  
    Audited Claims Ordinance  
  
    Sept.15, 2003  
