* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114614**   
**Ordinance Number: 121234**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.04.230, Progressive Discipline, to provide for the Personnel Director to promulgate rules for a system of progressive discipline and to clarify the Civil Service Commission notification and appeal requirements.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 28, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 31, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 31, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 23, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** PERSONNEL-ADMINISTRATION, CITY-EMPLOYEES  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 107790  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.04.230,  
    Progressive Discipline, to provide for the Personnel Director to  
    promulgate rules for a system of progressive discipline and to clarify  
    the Civil Service Commission notification and appeal requirements.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.04.230, Progressive  
    Discipline, Ordinance 107790 as amended, is hereby further amended as  
    follows:  
  
    A.  The Personnel Director shall promulgate rules for the  
    implementation and administration of a process of progressive  
    discipline for the purpose of addressing acts of employee misconduct  
    and, until such time as a performance management system is adopted,  
    inappropriate job performance.  The Personnel Director shall inform  
    the City Council in writing of  proposed changes to the Personnel  
    Rules regarding Progressive Discipline before the changes are  
    finalized and implemented.  
  
    B.  In order of increasing severity, the disciplinary actions  
    which his/her supervisor the appointing authority or a  
    designated management representative may take against an employee  
    for inappropriate behavior or performance include:  
  
      1.  A verbal warning, which shall be accompanied by a notation in  
    the employee's personnel file; and  
  
      2.  A written reprimand, a copy of which must be placed in the  
    employee's file; .  
  
    C.  In order of increasing severity, the disciplinary actions which  
    a supervisor may recommend and the appointing authority may approve  
    against an employee include:  
  
       3 1.  Suspension up to thirty (30) calendar days;  
       4 2.  Demotion; and  
       5 3.  Discharge.  
  
    B.  Which disciplinary action is taken depends upon the seriousness  
    of the affected employee's conduct; except, in the absence of  
    mitigating circumstances, a verbal warning or a written reprimand  
    shall not be given for a major disciplinary offense. When the  
    appointing authority determines in accordance with personnel rules to  
    impose a C.S suspension, demotion or dischargein  
    response to an act of employee misconduct or inappropriate job  
    performance, he or she shall provide such determination be  
    approved by the employee's department head in writing to the  
    employee. An hourly employee may be suspended up to one (1) day  
    without the department head's appointing authority's  
    approval for emergency situations, in accordance with rules  
    promulgated by the Director. Suspensions of non-represented salaried  
    employees shall be in increments of no less than one (1) week;  
    provided, that when discipline is administered for major safety  
    violations, suspensions of at least one (1) day but less than one (1)  
    week may be approved.  
  
    D.  Disciplinary actions shall be reported by the department head  
     appointing authority to the Personnel Director for records  
    purposes and  the Personnel Director's use in compiling  
    guidelines for like treatment of like behavior from department to  
    department.  
  
    E.  The Personnel Director may establish rules for application of  
    discipline which that are consistent for like behavior  
    from department to department. A department may , by rule, be  
    permitted to impose a more severe penalty than is otherwise  
    sanctioned where misconduct which may be of minimal significance to  
    other departments has a substantial impact on the operations, costs,  
    or safety within that department.  
  
    F.  The following is a nonexclusive list of major disciplinary  
    actions where a erbalwarning or written reprimand will not be  
    appropriate in the absence of mitigating circumstances:  
  
    1.  Assault or threat toward another person;  
  
  
    2.  Being impaired or affected by and/or testing positive for alcohol  
    or a controlled substance during working hours or using or possessing  
    alcohol or a controlled substance at the workplace;  
  
  
    3.  Use of City time, equipment or facilities for private gain or  
    other non-City purpose;  
  
  
    4.  Falsifying or destroying the business records of the employer at  
    any tie or place, without authorization;  
  
  
    5.  Knowingly making a false statement on an application for  
    employment or falsifying an employment-related examination score;  
  
  
    6.  Intentional damage to or theft of the property of the City,  
    another employee, or others;  
  
  
    7.  Carrying or otherwise possessing firearms or any type of weapon in  
    the course of employment, except as authorized by the appointing  
    authority;  
  
  
    8.  Unauthorized absence;  
  
  
    9.  Endangering the safety of, or causing injury to, the person or  
    property of another through negligence or intentional failure to  
    follow policies or procedures;  
  
  
    10.  Making a bribe, accepting a bribe, or soliciting a bribe;  
  
  
    11.  A knowing or intentional violation of the City Code of Ethics;  
  
  
    12.  Conviction of any felony or misdemeanor crime that is or may be  
    work-related, or may impair the employee's ability to perform his/her  
    job duties, whether committed at or away from the worksite or during  
    or outside working hours;  
  
  
    13.  Acts of racial/sexual harassment and/or acts of discrimination  
    that are prohibited by federal, state, or local laws, or a failure to  
    fulfill a responsibility to report incidents of harassment and/or  
    discrimination to an appropriate City manager or Human Resources  
    employee; or  
  
  
    14.  Other offenses of parallel gravity.  
  
  
    G.  Where an employee is accused of any action which, if proven, would  
    be grounds for removal of that employee from his/her position of  
    employment, the appointing authority may suspend the employee pending  
    investigation of the matter. An employee who is suspended without pay  
    and who is finally exonerated, shall be reinstated and awarded back  
    pay and benefits.  
  
  
    H.  Conviction of a crime shall not disqualify a person from City  
    employment, except where the conviction is for conduct reasonably  
    related to the work the applicant would be performing for the City,  
    and the conviction is less than five (5) years old.  
  
    I F.  An appointing authority who department  
    which  takes a disciplinary action that is subject to appeal to the  
    Civil Service Commission shall inform the employee in writing that:  
  
    1.  He or she has the right to appeal to the Civil Service Commission;  
  
    2.  To appeal, the employee must file a statement with the Civil  
    Service Commission within twenty (20) calendar  days; and  
  
    3.  The twenty (20) calendar days begin to run on the date of  
    delivery if the notice of the right to appealis given to the  
    employee personally or delivered to his or her most recent address  
    shown on departmental records; and on the third calendarday  
    after the date of mailing if the notice is mailed.  
  
    Section 2.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed  
    by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day  
    of __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    July 16,2003  
    version #7  
    t  
