* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114685**   
**Ordinance Number: 121268**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and ordering the payment thereof.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 8, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Drago, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 17, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 8, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** FINANCE  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and  
    ordering the payment thereof.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    SECTION 1.  Payment of the sum of Eleven Million, Seven Hundred  
    Seventy Nine Thousand, One Hundred Ninety Six and 25/100 dollars  
    ($11,779,196.25) on Summit mechanical checks numbered, 4000720001-  
    4000722407, plus manual or cancellation issues for claims, and  
    Electronic Financial Transactions (EFT) in the amount of Thirty Three  
    Million, One Hundred Ten Thousand, One Hundred and 21/100 dollars  
    ($33,110,100.21) are presented for ratification by the City Council  
    per Chapter 42.23 RCA.  
  
    SECTION 2.  Payment of the sum of Twenty Five Million, Forty Four  
    Thousand, Eight Hundred Fifty One and 81/100 dollars ($25,044,851.81)  
    on City General Salary Fund mechanical checks numbered 50793924-  
    50796350 plus manual checks, agencies checks, and direct deposits  
    numbered 360001 - 369455 representing Gross Payrolls for payroll  
    ending date Aug. 26, 2003 as detailed in the Payroll Summary Report  
    for claims against the City which were audited by the Auditing  
    Committee and reported by said committee to the City Council on Sept.  
    4, 2003 consistent with appropriations heretofore made for such  
    purpose from the appropriate Funds, is hereby approved.  
  
    SECTION 3.  That any act consistent with the authority and prior to  
    the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and  
    confirmed.  
  
    SECTION 4.  This ordinance, being an ordinance required for the  
    payment of salaries or current expenses shall take effect and be in  
    force immediately upon its approval, if approved by the Mayor;  
    otherwise it shall take effect at the time it shall become a law  
    under the provisions of the City Charter.  
  
    Passed by the City Council on the 8th day of Sept. 2003 and signed by  
    me in open session in authentication of its passage this Sept. 8,  
    2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      President ___________ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    L Shields  
  
    Audited Claims Ordinance  
  
    Sept.8, 2003  
