* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114669**   
**Ordinance Number: 121273**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE authorizing the acquisition of real estate in Lot 13, Block 2, Hillman City Division No. 3, commonly referred to as Hillman Orchard; accepting a Warranty Deed for said property, when received; and assigning jurisdiction for said property.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 15, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Drago)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 26, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 26, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 2, 2003   
**Committee:** Land Use   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, BRIGHTON, COLUMBIA-CITY, RAINIER-VALLEY, P-PATCH-PROGRAM  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114669.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114669  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE authorizing the acquisition of real estate in Lot 13,  
    Block 2, Hillman City Division No. 3, commonly referred to as Hillman  
    Orchard; accepting a Warranty Deed for said property, when received;  
    and assigning jurisdiction for said property.  
  
    WHEREAS, a vacant parcel in close proximity to the Hillman P-Patch in  
    the Hillman City neighborhood was made available by King County for a  
    price of $2,000; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Friends of the Orchard have generously donated $2,000  
    toward development of the property as a communally-managed open  
    space; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 120707 made a year 2002 allocation of $800,000  
    from the Neighborhood Matching Subfund to Small and Simple Projects  
    and authorized the Mayor or his designee to expend funds from this  
    allocation; and  
  
    WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 120707 the Department of Neighborhoods  
    awarded $7,095 of this total to assist the community develop Hillman  
    Orchard in cooperation with the P-Patch program; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Fleets and Facilities Director is hereby authorized,  
    for and on behalf of the City, to negotiate for and acquire all  
    rights, title, and interest in the real property legally described as  
    follows:  
  
    Lot 13, Block 2, Hillman City Division No. 3, as recorded in Volume  
    11 of Plats, page 38, Records of King County, Washington, EXCEPT that  
    portion taken for street.  
  
    Section 2.  From the total amount allocated by Ordinance 120707 from  
    the Neighborhood Matching Subfund to Small and Simple Projects, the  
    Director of the Department of Neighborhoods is authorized to expend  
    Two Thousand Dollars ($2,000) for the acquisition of real property  
    and property rights identified in Section 1 above.  
  
    Section 3.  The Fleets and Facilities Director is authorized, for and  
    on behalf of the City, to accept the Warranty Deed for the property  
    describe d in Section 1, which property, when received, shall be  
    placed under the jurisdiction of the Department of Neighborhoods.  
  
    Section 4.  Any acts made consistent with the authority and prior to  
    the effective date of this ordinance are hereby ratified and  
    confirmed.  
  
    Section 5.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and  
    returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it  
    shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Hillary Hamilton/hh  
  
    HillmanOrch-Ord.doc  
  
    July 26, 2003  
  
    version #1  
  
    - 1 -  
