* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114649**   
**Ordinance Number: 121255**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department authorizing execution of Amendatory Agreement No. 1 to the 1997 Pacific Northwest Coordination Agreement.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 2, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 12, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 11, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 4, 2003   
**Committee:** Energy and Environmental Policy   
**Sponsor:** WILLS   
  
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, ELECTRICITY, UTILITY-RATES, HYDROELECTRIC-FACILITIES, PLANNING  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114649.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114649  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department authorizing  
    execution of Amendatory Agreement No. 1 to the 1997 Pacific Northwest  
    Coordination Agreement.  
  
    WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 118626 executed by the Mayor in June  
    1997, the City entered into the 1997 Pacific Northwest Coordination  
    Agreement ("1997 PNCA") with 19 Pacific Northwest utilities, public  
    utility districts and government entities in order to ratify a  
    renegotiated hydroelectric system coordination agreement dating back  
    to 1964, the purpose of which is to provide more efficient operation  
    and coordination Pacific Northwest electric systems; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the 1997 PNCA established a procedure to set annual rates for  
    regular interchange energy that is independent of wholesale market  
    prices; and  
  
    WHEREAS, in 2000 wholesale energy spot market prices increased  
    dramatically above historical levels and PNCA participants found that  
    a party with surplus resources would sometimes be required to deliver  
    interchange energy to parties with resource deficits at prices that  
    were significantly below the actual market price, thereby creating an  
    economic disadvantage relative to the market; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the parties to the 1997 PNCA have agreed to reform the  
    pricing methodology for regular interchange energy so that it reflects  
    market-based wholesale power rates in the Northwest, which will be  
    equally fair to all interchange parties; and  
  
    WHEREAS, City Light has the option under the PNCA to withdraw specific  
    resources after proper notification is provided to other signatories;  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, the parties to the 1997 PNCA desire to clarify certain  
    definitions and modify  interchange accounting procedures with respect  
    to the 1997 PNCA; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the parties to the 1997 PNCA also agree to reiterate PPL  
    Montana, LLC's rights pursuant to the assignment consent document  
    filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in 2000, by which  
    PPL Montana, LLC assumed the rights and obligations of The Montana  
    Power Company with the respect to the 1997 PNCA;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1. The Superintendent of the City Light Department, or his  
    designee, is hereby authorized to execute for and on behalf of the  
    City Amendatory Agreement No. 1 to the 1997 Pacific Northwest  
    Coordination Agreement, substantially in the form of the agreement  
    attached hereto as Exhibit "A" entitled, "Amendatory Agreement No. 1  
    to the 1997 Pacific Northwest Coordination Agreement".  Amendatory  
    Agreement No. 1 ("AA1") ties the price of interchange energy exchanged  
    under the 1997 PNCA to the wholesale market index prices at a regional  
    market hub (i.e., Mid-Columbia) and modifies the interchange  
    accounting procedures accordingly.  AA1 also amends the definition of  
    firm resources to reflect the withdrawal of some of City of Tacoma's  
    and PacifiCorp's west side resources from the 1997 PNCA and reiterates  
    the preservation of PPL Montana, LLC's rights pursuant to an  
    assignment consent document filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory  
    Commission in 2000, by which PPL Montana, LLC assumed the rights and  
    obligations of The Montana Power Company with the respect to the 1997  
    PNCA.  
  
    Section 2. City Light shall conduct a benefit/cost analysis of whether  
    its non-Columbia resources should be withdrawn from the PNCA.  A copy  
    of the analysis shall be filed with the Council no later than sixty  
    (60) days before City Light would be required to notify other  
    participants under the terms of the PNCA. The report shall also  
    include a statement from City Light whether that generation will be  
    withdrawn for the next power year (August 1 2004-July 31, 2005).  
    Should any party propose a revision to the rates and charges as  
    provided under the Amendatory Agreement, City Light shall perform  
    additional analysis taking the changes into account.  These results  
    shall also be reported to the Council.  
  
    Section 3. Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance, but  
    prior to its effective date, is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 4.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed  
    by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day  
    of __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    Attachment:  Exhibit A - Amendatory Agreement No.1 To The 1997 Pacific  
    Northwest Coordination Agreement  
  
    08/22/03  
    version #3  
    t  
    AMENDATORY AGREEMENT NO. 1 TO  
  
    THE 1997 PACIFIC NORTHWEST COORDINATION AGREEMENT  
  
      THIS AMENDATORY AGREEMENT is entered into as of the __ day of  
    _____________, 2003, by and between the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,  
    acting by and through the Administrator, BONNEVILLE POWER  
    ADMINISTRATION of the DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY, the Division Engineer,  
    NORTHWESTERN DIVISION, CORPS OF ENGINEERS of the DEPARTMENT OF THE  
    ARMY, and the Regional Director, PACIFIC NORTHWEST REGION of the  
    BUREAU OF RECLAMATION of the DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR; the UNITED  
    STATES ENTITY designated pursuant to Article XIV of the Treaty; the  
    CITY OF EUGENE, OREGON, a municipal corporation of the State of  
    Oregon; the CITY OF SEATTLE, WASHINGTON, a municipal corporation of  
    the State of Washington; the CITY OF TACOMA, WASHINGTON, a municipal  
    corporation of the State of Washington; PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT NO. 2  
    OF GRANT COUNTY, WASHINGTON, a municipal corporation of the State of  
    Washington; PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT NO. 1 OF CHELAN COUNTY,  
    WASHINGTON, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington;  
    PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT NO. 1 OF PEND OREILLE COUNTY, WASHINGTON, a  
    municipal corporation of the State of Washington; PUBLIC UTILITY  
    DISTRICT NO. 1 OF DOUGLAS COUNTY, WASHINGTON, a municipal corporation  
    of the State of Washington; PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT NO. 1 OF COWLITZ  
    COUNTY, WASHINGTON, a municipal corporation of the State of  
    Washington; PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT NO. 1 OF SNOHOMISH COUNTY,  
    WASHINGTON, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington; PUGET  
    SOUND ENERGY, INC., a corporation; PORTLAND GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY,  
    a corporation; PACIFICORP, a corporation; AVISTA CORPORATION, a  
    corporation; PPL MONTANA, LLC, a limited liability company; and ALCOA  
    POWER GENERATING INC., a corporation.  
  
      The Pacific Northwest Coordination Agreement executed as of 18 June  
    1997 (referred to hereinafter as the "Coordination Agreement"), shall  
    be amended to read as follows:  
  
    (1)  
  
    Term of Procedure 2-1.  
  
    The following sentence shall be inserted before the first sentence of  
    Procedure 2-1., Additional Definitions, in Exhibit B, Long-Term  
    Methods and Procedures, of the Coordination Agreement.  
  
    This long-term procedure 2-1 has the same term as the Agreement.  
  
    (2) New Definition of Excluded Firm Resources  
  
    Notwithstanding any provision of paragraph 5(b)(1) or section 24 of  
    the Coordination Agreement to the contrary, effective February 1,  
    2003, the definition of Excluded Firm Resources of Procedure 2-1,  
    Additional Definitions, in Exhibit B, Long-Term Methods and  
    Procedures, of the Coordination Agreement shall be deleted and  
    replaced by the following definition:  
  
    Excluded Firm Resources means the Condit, Cushman #1, Cushman #2,  
    Mossyrock, Alder, Mayfield, La Grande, Swift #1, Yale, Merwin, East  
    Side, West Side, John C. Boyle, Copco #1, Copco #2, Iron Gate, Fall  
    Creek, Upper Klamath Lake, Prospect #1, Prospect #2, Prospect #3,  
    Prospect #4, Eagle Point, Lemolo #1, Lemolo #2, Clearwater #1,  
    Clearwater #2, Toketee Falls, Fish Creek, Slide Creek, Soda Springs,  
    Albany, and Stayton Projects, which Projects shall not be considered  
    Firm Resources after February 1, 2003, unless such Projects are  
    submitted thereafter pursuant to subsection 6(a), Load and Firm  
    Resource Data.  
  
    (3)  New Definition of Transferring Party  
  
    The following definition of Transferring Party shall be added to  
    section 2, Definitions, of the Coordination Agreement.  
  
    Transferring Party means a Party transferring previously received  
    Regular Interchange Energy to a Receiving Party.  
  
    (4) Previously Received Interchange Energy  
  
    The following subparagraph is added to the Coordination Agreement as  
    9(d)(1)(D).  
  
    (D) Previously Received Regular Interchange Energy  
  
    A Party which has received initial deliveries of Regular Interchange  
    Energy from one or more Parties since the last settlement of  
    Interchange Energy imbalances pursuant to 9(d)(3)(D) may transfer  
    some or all of this energy to another Party to satisfy a request for  
    Interchange Energy.  Energy supplied as previously received Regular  
    Interchange Energy shall be limited to Regular Interchange Energy  
    received by the current Transferring Party since the last settlement  
    of Interchange Energy imbalances.  Delivery of previously received  
    Regular Interchange Energy shall constitute an assignment of the  
    rights and obligations of the Transferring Party relating to such  
    energy, with respect to the previous Supplying Party under this  
    agreement, to the current Receiving Party, as if the original  
    delivery of such energy had been made directly to the current  
    Receiving Party.  If the Transferring Party paid interim cash  
    advances on account for such energy, the Receiving Party shall pay  
    the equivalent cash advances to the Transferring Party at the time of  
    delivery.  All Parties shall be notified promptly of the change of  
    accounts by the Transferring Party.  
  
    (5) Interchange Pricing  
  
    Paragraph 14(a)(3) of the Coordination Agreement is deleted and  
    replaced by these subparagraphs 14(a)(3)(A) and 14(a)(3)(B) as  
    follows:  
  
    (3) Determination of Regular Interchange Energy Rate  
  
    In the absence of an applicable long-term procedure, the rate for  
    Regular Interchange Energy shall be as follows.  Deliveries of  
    Regular Interchange Energy may be either initial deliveries from a  
    Supplying Party or transfers from a Transferring Party as provided  
    for in subparagraph 9(d)(1)(D).  
  
    (A) Rate for Initial Deliveries of Regular Interchange Energy  
  
    The rate for initial deliveries of Regular Interchange Energy shall  
    be equal to (a) the Dow Jones Mid-Columbia Firm On Peak index for  
    those megawatt hours of Regular Interchange Energy delivered in the  
    periods recognized as On Peak hours by the index, (b) the Dow Jones  
    Mid-Columbia Firm Off Peak index for those megawatt hours of Regular  
    Interchange Energy delivered in the periods recognized as Off Peak  
  
    hours by the index, Monday through Saturday on days that are not  
    recognized by the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC)  
    or its successor organization(s) as holidays.  The rate for initial  
    deliveries of Regular Interchange Energy shall be equal to the Dow  
    Jones Sundays and NERC 24 Hour index for those megawatt hours of  
    Regular Interchange Energy delivered during all hours on Sunday and  
    during days recognized by NERC or its successor organization(s) as  
    holidays.  
  
    (B) Rate for Deliveries of Previously Received Regular Interchange  
    Energy  
  
    When supplied from previously received Regular Interchange Energy  
    pursuant to 9(d)(1)(D), the rate for Regular Interchange Energy shall  
    be equal to the average rate for such energy calculated pursuant to  
    subparagraph 9(d)(3)(E).  If the current Transferring Party has  
    previously received Regular Interchange Energy from more than one  
    Supplying Party and is delivering from such previously received  
    Regular Interchange Energy, the Transferring Party shall designate  
    which Supplying Party such energy is from and the average price of  
    such energy charged by the applicable Supplying Party.  
  
    (6) Interchange Accounting  
  
    Subparagraphs 9(d)(3)(B) and 9(d)(3)(C) of the Coordination Agreement  
    are deleted and replaced by these subparagraphs.  
  
    (B) Credit for Returns  
  
    When a Receiving Party returns Interchange Energy to a Supplying  
    Party, the outstanding Interchange Energy imbalance between such  
    Supplying Party and such Receiving Party shall be reduced.  Returns  
    of Regular Interchange Energy by a Receiving Party shall be applied  
    to its imbalance account by megawatt hour, except returns of excess  
    Regular Interchange Energy deliveries shall be applied to the Period  
    when the excess energy was delivered.  A return of Regular  
    Interchange Energy shall reduce the charges for such imbalance by  
    eliminating the average charges per megawatt hour calculated pursuant  
    to 14(a).  Upon a return of Regular Interchange Energy, the Supplying  
    Party shall refund any applicable interim cash payments.  
  
    (C) Accounting Responsibilities  
  
    The Supplying Party shall inform the Receiving Party on an on-going  
    basis of the balance of outstanding Interchange Energy, the charge  
    associated with such Interchange Energy and the amount of outstanding  
    interim cash payments.  
  
    The following subparagraph is added to the Coordination Agreement as  
    9(d)(3)(E).  
  
    (E) Calculation of Rates Applicable to a Transfer or Return of  
    Regular Interchange Energy  
  
    The rate for Regular Interchange Energy either (i) returned to a  
    Supplying Party or (ii) transferred to a Receiving Party pursuant to  
    9(d)(1)(D) shall be equal to an average rate calculated pursuant to  
    this subparagraph.  The Receiving Party shall divide its total  
    balance with a Party into three parts with different costs as  
    follows:  
  
    (i) Cost of Initial Deliveries Not Included in a Previous Calculation  
  
    The Receiving Party shall calculate the total cost for the balance  
    resulting from any initial deliveries of Regular Interchange Energy  
    received from such Party, after any previous calculation pursuant to  
    this subparagraph for such Party based on the applicable rate  
    pursuant to 14(a)(3)(A).  
  
    (ii) Cost of Transfers Not Included in a Previous Calculation  
  
    The Receiving Party shall calculate a total cost for the balance  
    resulting from any transfers from a Transferring Party of such  
    Party's Regular Interchange Energy received after any previous  
    calculation pursuant to this subparagraph based on the average cost  
    pursuant to 14(a)(3)(B).  
  
    (iii) Cost from a Previous Calculation  
  
    The Receiving Party shall calculate a total cost for the remaining  
    balance with such Party based on the associated average cost per  
    megawatt hour from the previous calculation pursuant to this  
    subparagraph.  
  
    The Receiving Party shall calculate a new energy-weighted average  
    rate for its total balance with such Party based on the sum of the  
    three costs calculated pursuant to clauses 9(d)(3)(E)(i), (ii) and  
    (iii) above.  This new average rate shall apply to the amount of  
    Interchange Energy either returned to such Party or transferred to a  
    Receiving Party.  This new average rate shall also apply to the  
    remaining balance of Regular Interchange Energy after the return or  
    transfer of such Regular Interchange Energy until either a new  
    initial delivery of Regular Interchange Energy is made by such Party  
    or a new transfer of such Party's Regular Interchange Energy is  
    received by the Receiving Party from a Transferring Party.  
  
    (7) Review of Charges  
  
    Paragraph 14(i)(1) of the Coordination Agreement shall be deleted and  
    replaced by the following paragraph 14(i)(1):  
  
    (1)  Scope of This Subsection 14(i)  
  
    The rates and charges provided for in this section 14 other than  
    those rates and charges provided for in paragraph 14(d)(2) above are  
    subject to review by the Parties and to change as provided in this  
    subsection 14(i).  The rates and charges provided for in paragraph  
    14(d)(2) above are not subject to review by the Parties and to change  
    as provided in this subsection 14(i), but are recalculated annually  
    by the Coordinating Group pursuant to the methodologies contained in  
    such paragraph.  
  
    Paragraph 14(i)(3) of the Coordination Agreement shall be deleted and  
    replaced by the following paragraph 14(i)(3):  
  
    (3)  Review of Charges  
  
    Beginning in the second Operating Year after the Effective Date, any  
    Party may prior to July 1 request changes in any of the rates and  
    charges under this Section 14 except those contained in paragraph  
    14(d)(2) and subsection 14(g) above.  The Parties may request changes  
    to rates and charges annually, provided if any rate or charge is  
    changed, such changed rate or charge shall remain in effect for three  
    years before any further change to such rate or charge may be made.  
    Any change made to any such rate or charge shall be subject to the  
    written agreement of all of the Parties and shall become effective  
    the Operating Year immediately following the date of such agreement  
    by the Parties and receipt of all regulatory authorizations necessary  
    to effectuate such change with respect to each Party.  If a  
    regulatory or judicial authority with jurisdiction requires that one  
    or more Parties change any rate or charge under this Section 14,  
    review under this paragraph 14(i)(3) shall be initiated immediately  
    and, pending the Parties' decision on how to accommodate such  
    regulatory or judicial order, the Party or Parties that are subject  
    to such order shall not be required to take action under this  
    Coordination Agreement that violates such order.  
  
    (8) Preservation of PPL Montana, LLC's Rights  
  
    Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as in any way  
    terminating, eliminating, modifying, subordinating, abridging or in  
    any way limiting PPL Montana, LLC's rights under the document  
    entitled, 'Consent to Assignment and Addendum (1997 Pacific Northwest  
    Coordination Agreement),' that was submitted to the Federal Energy  
    Regulatory Commission on February 25, 2000.  
  
    This Amendatory Agreement shall be effective as of February 1, 2003.  
  
      Except as expressly amended hereby, all the terms and conditions of  
    the Coordination Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.  
  
      In WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendatory  
    Agreement in several counterparts.  
  
      THE CITY OF SEATTLE, WASHINGTON,  
  
    a municipal corporation of the State of Washington  
  
         By:______________________________________  
  
    James P. Ritch  
  
    Title:  Acting Superintendent, City Light Department  
  
    Amendatory Agreement No. 5  
  
    Amendatory Agreement No. 1  
  
    Signature Copy  
  
    Page 2  Draft of 13 April 2001  
  
        Page 6  
  
    Exhibit A to PNCA Amendment Ordinance  
