* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114658**   
**Ordinance Number: 121253**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to taxes on admission fees; expanding exemptions available to nonprofit organizations; increasing the minimum admission fee subject to such tax from Fifteen Cents ($0.15) to One Dollar and Fifty Cents ($1.50); providing for joint and several liability; repealing Sections 5.40.026, 5.40.028, and 5.40.050, and amending Sections 5.40.010, 5.40.020, 5.40.025, 5.40.040, 5.40.050, 5.40.060, 5.40.080, 5.40.085, and 5.40.090, respectively, of the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 2, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 12, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 11, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 11, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** ADMISSION-TAX, SOCIAL-SERVICE-AGENCIES, NON-PROFIT-ORGANIZATIONS, CHARITABLE-ORGANIZATIONS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114658.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114658  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to taxes on admission fees; expanding exemptions  
    available to nonprofit organizations; increasing the minimum admission  
    fee subject to such tax from Fifteen Cents ($0.15) to One Dollar and  
    Fifty Cents ($1.50); providing for joint and several liability;  
    repealing Sections 5.40.026, 5.40.028, and 5.40.050, and amending  
    Sections 5.40.010, 5.40.020, 5.40.025, 5.40.040, 5.40.050, 5.40.060,  
    5.40.080, 5.40.085, and 5.40.090, respectively, of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code.  
  
    WHEREAS, the exemptions from admission tax currently available for  
    nonprofit organizations are limited to arts and human services as  
    defined in Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 5.40, and the City desires  
    to broaden this exemption to encourage qualifying nonprofit  
    organizations in their endeavors; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the loss of revenue associated with broadening the exemption  
    to other nonprofit sponsored events is minimal: and  
  
    WHEREAS, the current admission tax exemption provisions are confusing  
    and difficult to understand and administer, and the loss of revenue  
    from such changes will be small; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the efforts of the City in identifying and collecting  
    admission tax in connection with temporary or transitory events will  
    be greatly enhanced by increasing the accountability of owners and  
    lessees of the venues profiting from such events;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 5.40.010 is amended to read  
    as follows:  
  
    5.40.010 Definitions.  
  
    For the purposes of this chapter, the words and terms contained in SMC  
    Chapter 5.30 shall apply throughout this chapter unless expressly  
    provided otherwise herein. The following additional definitions shall  
    apply throughout this chapter:  
  
    A.  "Admission charge," in addition to its usual and  
    ordinary meaning, means the price required or paid for  
    entering a premise or location and includes but is not limited in  
    meaning to:  
  
    1. A charge made for season tickets or subscriptions;  
  
    2. A cover charge or a charge made for use of seats or tables,  
    reserved or otherwise, and similar accommodations;  
  
    3. A charge made for food or refreshments in any place where any free  
    entertainment, recreation or amusement is provided;  
  
    4. A charge made for rental or use of equipment or facilities for  
    purposes of recreation or amusement and, where the rental of the  
    equipment or facilities is necessary to the enjoyment of the privilege  
    for which a general admission is charged, the combined charge shall be  
    considered as the admission charge;  
  
    5. A charge made for admission to any theater, dance hall,  
    amphitheater, private club, auditorium, observation tower, stadium,  
    athletic pavilion or field, baseball or athletic park, circus, side  
    show, swimming pool, outdoor amusement park or any similar place; and  
    includes equipment to which persons are admitted for purposes of  
    recreation such as merry-go-rounds, ferris wheels, dodge-ems, roller  
    coasters, go-carts and other rides whether such rides are restricted  
    to tracks or not;  
  
    6. A charge made for automobile parking where the amount of the charge  
    is determined according to the number of passengers in an automobile.  
  
    B.  "Cabaret" means a room where musical entertainment is permitted in  
    connection with a restaurant business.  
  
    C.  "College" or "university" means any accredited public or private  
    college, junior college or university, or the recognized student body  
    association thereof insofar as the admission charges received by the  
    college, university, or student body association are budgeted, and  
    applied solely for exhibition, performance, study and/or teaching of  
    the performing arts, visual arts, history or science. It specifically  
    excludes any athletic department or division or activities of the  
    college or university or of the recognized student body association  
    thereof.  
  
    D.  "Nonprofit tax-exempt organization" means an  
    organization in which no part of the income can be distributed to  
    its members, director or officers and that holds a current tax exempt  
    status as provided under Sec. 501(c)(3), (4) or (6) of the Internal  
    Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or is specifically exempted from the  
    requirement to apply for tax exempt status under Sec. 501(c)(3).  
    , corporation, or association organized and operated for the  
    advancement, appreciation, public exhibition or performance,  
    preservation, study and/or teaching of the performing arts (music,  
    drama including puppetry, opera, film arts or dance), visual arts,  
    historic vessels, history or science, which is currently recognized by  
    the United States of America as exempt from federal income taxation  
    pursuant to Section 501 (c)(1) or (3) of the Internal Revenue Code of  
    1954, 26 U.S.C. Section 501, as now existing or hereafter amended, and  
    a division, department or instrumentality of state or local government  
    devoted to the arts, history or science.  
  
    E.  "Department" means the Department of Executive Administration of  
    The City of Seattle, or its functional successor.  
  
    F.  "Director" means the Director of Executive Administration of The  
    City of Seattle, or his or her functional successor, and shall include  
    the Director's authorized representatives.  
  
    Section 2.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 5.40.020 is amended to read  
    as follows:  
  
      5.40.020  Tax levied.  
  
      A.  There is levied and imposed a tax upon everyone, without regard  
    to age, who pays an admission charge as defined in Section 5.40.010 or  
    is admitted, without payment, where an admission charge is collected  
    from other persons as contemplated by Section 5.40.053.  
  
      B.  The tax here imposed shall be in the amount of five (5) percent  
    on each admission charge or charge for season or series ticket. Any  
    fraction of tax One-half Cent ($.005) or more shall result in a tax at  
    the next highest full cent.  
  
      C.  Amounts paid for admission by season ticket or subscription  
    shall be exempt if the amount which would be charged to the holder or  
    subscriber for a single admission is Fifteen Cents ($0.15)  
    One Dollar and Fifty Cents ($1.50) or less.  
  
      D.  Anyone having the use of a box or seat permanently or for a  
    specified period, shall pay,in addition to the tax required for  
    admission under subsections A and B of this section, a tax in the  
    amount of five (5) percent of the price of such box or seat, the same  
    to be collected and remitted in the manner provided in Section  
    5.40.070 by the person selling such tickets.  
  
      E.  If the ticket price is accompanied by a service charge, mailing  
    fee or other ancillary payment, per ticket and/or per order, the  
    admission tax shall be based upon the total sum of the admission price  
    plus any such surcharge(s), whether or not they are printed on the  
    ticket or order.  
  
      F.  Anyone who is admitted free of charge or at reduced rates to any  
    place for which other persons pay a charge or a regular higher charge  
    for the same privileges or accommodations shall pay an admission tax  
    as contemplated by Sections  5.40.053 and 5.40.056, respectively.  
  
      G.  When entertainment or admission to an event or activity  
    accompanies the sale of food, refreshments, merchandise, lodging or  
    services, admission taxes are measured by the total price of the  
    combined transaction, unless the admission price for the  
    entertainment, amusement, rental or use of equipment is printed  
    separately on the ticket or invitation and reflects its true market  
    value as an independent element.  
  
      H.  The tax levied in this chapter shall be paid by the person  
    paying the admission charge and shall be collected and remitted by the  
    person to whom the same is paid in the manner provided in Sections  
    5.40.070 and 5.40.090,  
  
      I.  A discount admission shall be subject to tax as contemplated  
    by Section 5.40.056 even though the discounted price is One Dollar and  
    Fifty Cents ($1.50) or less, unless a criterion in Section 5.40.056  
    for applying the lower price is satisfied.  
  
    Section 3.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 5.40.025 is amended to read  
    as follows: 5.40.025 Tax exemption -Minimum charge - Schools--  
    PTSAs -Specific exemptions-- Colleges - Universities -  
    Nonprofit organizations.  
  
    A. The admission tax as imposed in SMC Section 5.40.020 shall not  
    apply to anyone paying an admission charge for the following  
    specific events:  
  
    1. In the amount of Ten Cents ($0.10) One Dollar and  
    Fifty Cents ($1.50) or less; or  
  
    2. To any activity of any elementary or secondary school as  
    contemplated by RCW 35.21.280; or  
  
    3. To any activity of any Parent-Teacher-Student Association (PTSA),  
    Parent-Teacher Association (PTA), or similar organization, provided  
    that the proceeds of the activity are used to benefit an elementary or  
    secondary school; or  
  
    4. To the annual Bumbershoot Festival held on Labor Day and the  
    preceding Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday;.  
  
    5. To the Woodland Park Zoo; or  
  
    6. To the Folklife Festival held on Memorial Day and the preceding  
    Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday.  
  
    A discount admission shall be subject to tax as contemplated by  
    Section 5.40.056 although the discounted price is Ten Cents ($0.10) or  
    less, unless a criterion in Section 5.40.056 for applying the lower  
    price is satisfied.  
  
    7. To an event sponsored by a college or university or nonprofit  
    organization, when all of the following three (3) criteria are met:  
  
    a. A college or university or nonprofit  organization, as both are  
    defined in Section 5.40.010  and registered under Section 5.40.080,  
    that meets one (1) or more of the following criteria:  
  
  
    i. Publicly sponsors and through its members, representatives, or  
    personnel promotes, publicizes and distributes most of the tickets for  
    admission; or  
  
  
    ii. Publicly sponsors and presents the event at a facility it owns or  
    leases as lessee for a term of not less than one (1) month; or  
  
  
    iii. Publicly sponsors and:  
  
  
    (a). Performs a major portion of the performance, or  
  
  
    (b). Supplies a major portion of the materials on exhibition, or  
  
  
    (c). When the event is part of a season or series of performances or  
    exhibitions, performs the major portion of the performances or  
    exhibitions in the season or series; and  
  
  
    b. The college, university or nonprofit organization receives the use  
    and benefit of admission charges collected; and  
  
  
    c. In the case of a performance, the seating capacity of the location  
    where the event occurs is three thousand one hundred (3,100) people or  
    less, or, in the case of an exhibition, no more than three thousand  
    one hundred (3,100) people are permitted on the premises at any one  
    time.  
  
  
    B.  The exemption to the admission tax as provided in subsection A(7)  
    of this section shall not apply to:  
  
  
    1. The admission to an athletic event, including, but not limited to,  
    football games, basketball games or baseball games; or  
  
  
    2. The admission for recreational activities, including, but not  
    limited to, golf, skating or swimming; picnicking or  
  
  
    3. An event in which a college, university or nonprofit organization  
    lends its name to an endorsement for an ineligible person for the  
    purpose of invoking the tax exemption.  
  
    Section 4.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 5.40.026 is repealed in its  
    entirety.  
  
    Section 5.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 5.40.028 is repealed in its  
    entirety.  
  
    Section 6.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 5.40.040 is amended to read  
    as follows:  
  
    5.40.040 Swimming pools -- Skating rinks -- Golf courses.  
  
    The admission charge shall be the amount paid by any person  
    paying more than Fifteen Cents ($0.15) to gain entrance to any  
    building, enclosure or area in which there is a swimming pool, skating  
    rink, golf driving range, miniature golf course, short nine, or other  
    golf course, or to gain entrance to such pool, rink or course itself,  
    or for the use of the facilities thereof, or any rental paid by the  
    person paying for such entry for the use of equipment and facilities  
    supplied him and appropriate to the enjoyment of the privilege for  
    which the admission is charged, or the aggregate thereof. The  
    admission charge shall exclude dues, initiation fees, and maintenance  
    assessments paid by a member of a any profit or nonprofit  
    organization to defray administrative expenses or provide for the  
    purposes of the organization and which entitle the member to   
    participate in belong to the organization's activities  
    or use its facilities; provided, that when no comparable "usage"  
    fees, such as green fees, are charged, the portion of dues,  
    initiation fees and other assessments which entitle members to use  
    facilities will be taxed on the same measure as comparable usage fees  
    charged for like activities at venues that do not collect dues,  
    initiation fees or other assessments. the admission charge  
    shall include any special fees or charges, including greens fees, of  
    more than Fifteen Cents ($0.15) which are separately identified and  
    charged for a particular event, rental or usage and paid by a member  
    for entrance, rental of equipment, or the aggregate thereof as  
    aforesaid and any such charges of more than Fifteen Cents ($0.15) paid  
    by or for guests.  
  
    Section 7.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 5.40.050 is repealed in its  
    entirety.  
  
    Section 8. Seattle Municipal Code Section 5.40.060 is amended to read  
    as follows:  
  
    5.40.060 Ticket numbering and information.  
  
    A.  Ticket information.  
  
    1. Whenever a charge is made for admission to any place, a serially  
    numbered or reserve seat ticket shall be furnished the person paying  
    such charge unless written approval has been obtained from the  
    Director to use a turnstile or other counting device which will  
    accurately count the number of paid admissions. The established price,  
    service charge, sales tax, City tax and total price at which  
    every such admission ticket or card is sold shall be separately,  
    conspicuously and indelibly printed or written on the face or back of  
    that part of the ticket which is to be taken up collected  
     by the management of the place to which admission is gained.  
  
    2. It shall be unlawful for anyone to sell an admission ticket or card  
    on which the name of the person conducting the event and the price is  
    not so printed, stamped or written, or to sell or offer to sell an  
    admission ticket or card at a price in excess of the price printed,  
    stamped or written thereon.  The admission tax due shall be based on  
    the total sum of the established price plus any service charge printed  
    on the ticket. When a charge is made for admission, a sign must be  
    posted in a conspicuous place on the entrance or ticket office which  
    breaks down the admission charge as follows:  
  
    Established Price  
    Service Charge (if any)  
    Sales Tax  
    City Admission Tax  
    Total Price  
  
    It is unlawful to charge a service charge on admission tickets unless  
    the purchaser is fully informed of the purpose of such charge by  
    published or posted notice in advance of the ticket sale.  
  
    3. The Director of Finance or his/her designee, who has been  
    commissioned as a Special Police Officer, or the Seattle Police  
    Chief or his/her designee, is authorized to confiscate, seize or  
    otherwise remove from sale, or offered sale, any ticket in violation  
    of or offered for sale or sold in violation of SMC subsections  
    5.40.060 A1 or 2this subsection.  
  
      B.  It is unlawful for any person to request a donation or  
    contribution that represents an admission charge or fee for the  
    privilege of entering, attending, or remaining in attendance at any  
    theater, dance, amusement or other place of public performance where  
    persons are not admitted or allowed to remain in attendance without  
    payment of such donation or contribution.  Signage, advertising,  
    invitations, notices and other literature relating to the event may  
    only state the words "donation accepted" or "donation appreciated."  
    The amount of a A  "suggested donation" shall  
    not be stated on an invitation, signage, advertising, or   
    accompanying other literature.  Any donation amount  
    suggested or requested used in conjunction with the event will be  
    treated as an admission charge.  
  
    Section 9. Seattle Municipal Code Section 5.40.080 is amended to read  
    as follows:  
  
    5.40.080 Certificate of registration -- Required -- Application.  
  
    Any person conducting or operating any place for entrance to which an  
    admission charge is made shall, prior to the commencement of any such  
    activity, and on a form prescribed by the Director, file an  
    application with the Director to conduct or operate such activity. The  
    application shall be filed whether or not the person has received an  
    exemption from collecting the tax under the provision of this chapter.  
    The Director shall then issue a business license with an admission tax  
    endorsement. The endorsement shall continue valid ((until December  
    31st of the year in which the application was filed for as  
    long as the person maintains a valid business license.  Failure   
    of any person to obtain or renewthe endorsement   
    prior to for conducting theany activity for  
    which an admission charge is made within 20 days after being  
    notified of the requirement by the Director will result in the  
    penalties contained in SMC 5.55.030 Ea penalty of Two Hundred  
    and Fifty Dollars ($250).  This penalty is in addition to any tax and  
    penalties due according to SMC 5.55.110 (A), if applicable.  
  
    Section 10.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 5.40.085 is amended to  
    read as follows:  
  
    5.40.085 Certificate of ((e))Exemption - Application, issuance -  
    Cancellation-- Proof of nonprofit status.  
  
    A.  Any person seeking to secure an exemption from the admission tax  
    pursuant to Section 5.40.0256 A from the admission tax as  
    provided in this chapter shall present, at the time of its  
    application for a business license as described in SMC 5.55.030,  
    official proof of its exemption from federal income taxation pursuant  
    to Section 501 (c)(3), (4) or (6) of the Internal Revenue Code of  
    1986, as now existing or hereafter amended, or in the alternative,  
    provide proof of its specific exemption from the requirement to file  
    IRS Form 1023 in order to obtain tax exempt status.  If the exemption  
    applicant already has a business license, then the request for  
    exemption and proof required above shall be filed prior to engaging in  
    the activity which requires an admission. , for each activity  
    or series of activities as prescribed by the Director:  
  
    1. Identify the activity or set of activities at which persons paying  
    an admission charge are not to be taxed;  
  
  
    2. Supply sufficient information as well as enable the Director both:  
  
  
       a. To determine the applicability of the tax to the activity or set  
    of activities so identified, and  
  
  
       b. To distinguish the same from other occasions, if any, when taxes  
    are to be collected; and  
  
  
    3. Provide evidence as necessary to show the status of the party  
    performing the activity or set of activities as a college, university,  
    or nonprofit tax-exempt organization as defined in Section 5.40.010.  
    The applicant may be required to notify the Director of any subsequent  
    change in condition from the facts stated or information supplied.   
    If the Director determines that persons paying such admission charge  
    are not subject to the admission tax, the applicant shall receive a  
    certification of such determination for the activity or series of  
    activities, as the case may be.  
  
    B. The Director may cancel the certificate of exemption of any  
    college, university, or nonprofit tax-exempt organization  
    which (1) secures an exemption from the tax pursuant to Section  
    5.40.026 A by making a false representation in its application,  
    or fails to adhere to its criteria or (2) otherwise violates  
    Section 5.40.0256A or a rule or regulation of the  
    Director implementing it. The order of cancellation may bar such  
    an organization from registering again for a period of two (2) years.  
  
  
    C. If the Director has ordered a certificate of exemption cancelled,  
    an aggrieved person may contest the cancellation by filing a notice of  
    appeal and request for hearing with the hearing examiner within ten  
    (10) days after service or mailing of the order.  If the Hearing  
    Examiner is satisfied that a mailed notice was not delivered or was  
    unreasonably delayed in delivery, he/she may allow an appeal made  
    within ten (10) days after the appellant receives notice of the order  
    of cancellation.  
  
    D.If a request for hearing is filed by the applicant within  
    the prescribed period, a hearing shall be scheduled before the Hearing  
    Examiner and shall be conducted by the Hearing Examiner according to  
    the applicable Hearing Examiner rules for contested cases.  
     If an appeal is not filed by the applicant within the  
    prescribed period, the order of the Director canceling the  
    registration and certificate of exclusion shall be final.  
  
    D.  Exempt persons shall reapply for their certificate of exemption  
    on September 30th,  five (5) years after the date the previous  
    exemption was issued so that the Director may ensure that the agency  
    still meets the criteria established for the exemption.  
  
    Section 11.  Seattle Municipal Code Section 5.40.090 is amended to  
    read as follows:  
  
  
    5.40.090 Certificate of registration - Transitory events -  
    Owner/lessee and promoter/conductor jointly and severally liable.  
     of building to be named.  
  
    Whenever the applicant for a certificate of registration,  
    obtained for the purpose of operating or conducting a temporary or  
    transitory amusement, entertainment or exhibition, is not the  
    owner, lessee, or custodian of the buildings, lots or place where  
    the amusement is to be conducted premises or location to which  
    an admission fee is required to be paid, the tax imposed by  
    this chapter shall be reported and remitted as provided in Section  
    5.40.070 by the person who is the owner, lessee or custodian, if not  
    paid by the person conducting the amusement, entertainment or  
    exhibition owner, lessee or custodian of the premises or  
    location shall be jointly and severally liable for the reporting and  
    remittance of the admission tax.  The applicant for a certificate  
    of registration in any such case shall furnish the Director with the  
    application, with containing the name and address of  
    the owner, lessee or custodian of the premises upon which the  
    amusement is to be conducted or location to which an admission  
    fee is required to be paid, and such owner, lessee or custodian  
    shall be notified by the Director of the issuance of such certificate  
    and of his joint and several liability for collection and  
    remittance of such the tax.  
  
    Section 12.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed  
    by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day  
    of __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    July 17, 2003  
    version 2  
    ta  
