* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114689**   
**Ordinance Number: 121311**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit"); authorizing execution of a Memorandum of Agreement Between Sound Transit and the City of Seattle for Undergrounding of Overhead Utilities Along Martin Luther King, Jr. Way South.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 13, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 23, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 23, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 8, 2003   
**Committee:** Transportation   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN   
  
**Index Terms:** UNDERGROUND-WIRING, RAINIER-VALLEY, MASS-TRANSIT, REGIONAL-TRANSIT-AUTHORITY, INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, LIGHT-RAIL-TRANSIT  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 30459  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114689.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114689  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit  
    Authority ("Sound Transit"); authorizing execution of a Memorandum of  
    Agreement Between Sound Transit and the City of Seattle for  
    Undergrounding of Overhead Utilities Along Martin Luther King, Jr. Way  
    South.  
  
    WHEREAS, the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound  
    Transit") is a duly organized regional transit authority existing  
    under Chapters 81.104 and 81.112 RCW and has all powers necessary to  
    implement a high capacity transportation system; and  
  
    WHEREAS, on November 5, 1996, central Puget Sound voters approved  
    local funding for Sound Move, Sound Transit's ten-year regional  
    transit plan; and  
  
    WHEREAS, on November 29, 2001, Sound Transit adopted Resolution No.  
    R2001-16, selecting a 14-mile Initial Segment of light rail to be  
    constructed and operated, which includes more than four miles of  
    surface light rail along Martin Luther King, Jr. Way South in the  
    Rainier Valley; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Resolution No. R2001-16 also: provided that the light rail  
    project scope shall include relocating and placing the utilities along  
    Martin Luther King, Jr. Way South underground; retained $13.5 million  
    budgeted by Sound Transit for undergrounding; and committed to  
    pursuing additional funding sources to supplement the budget in order  
    to pay the total cost to underground utilities; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City has authority to prescribe the terms and conditions  
    under which any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, or other public  
    ground may be used and to regulate all such use; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City and Sound Transit have agreed that Martin Luther  
    King, Jr. Way South will be widened to accommodate light rail, but  
    agreed to a narrower right- of-way width to limit property  
    acquisitions and impacts, which resulted in a typical  
    sidewalk/planting strip area that will be narrower than the City's  
    design standard for arterial roadways; and  
  
    WHEREAS, undergrounding publicly- and privately-owned utilities would  
    maximize usable sidewalk/planting strip space for pedestrian safety  
    and refuge; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Sound Transit's complete reconstruction of Martin Luther  
    King, Jr. Way South and ability to pay a substantial share of the cost  
    for undergrounding provides a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to  
    maximize efficiency by incorporating utility undergrounding in  
    conjunction with major transportation improvements and minimize future  
    disruption; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Sound Transit's light rail overhead catenary system will run  
    down the center of Martin Luther King, Jr. Way South the entire length  
    of the surface light rail alignment, creating potential conflicts with  
    overhead utilities; and  
  
    WHEREAS, future build-out of private commercial development under such  
    conditions can create conflicts between overhead electric  
    infrastructure and building faces in commercial areas; and  
  
    WHEREAS, relocating utility wires underground will significantly  
    advance the overall urban design concept for Martin Luther King, Jr.  
    Way South by beautifying and enhancing the streetscape; allowing more  
    space for landscaping, sidewalks, and other pedestrian amenities;  
    improving pedestrian safety; and creating a more welcoming business  
    environment; and, in short, will help make this prominent arterial a  
    City street that honors its namesake by inspiring pride in its users  
    and the community; and  
  
    WHEREAS on April 22, 2002, the City Council adopted Resolution 30459,  
    supporting relocating and placing underground publicly-owned and  
    privately-owned utilities along Martin Luther King, Jr. Way South in  
    conjunction with Sound Transit's light rail construction, and  
    directing the Mayor to negotiate and submit for Council review a  
    proposed agreement with Sound Transit defining the terms and  
    conditions for City payments for undergrounding; and  
  
    WHEREAS the City and Sound Transit have successfully completed  
    negotiation of a Memorandum of Agreement that complies with the  
    general parameters specified in Resolution 30459, including, but not  
    limited to, the scope and maximum allowable budget for City financial  
    obligations; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Mayor, or his designee, is hereby authorized to  
    execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, an agreement with  
    Sound Transit substantially in the form of the document attached  
    hereto and entitled "Memorandum of Agreement Between Sound Transit and  
    the City of Seattle for Undergrounding of Overhead Utilities Along  
    Martin Luther King, Jr. Way South."  
  
    Section 2.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed  
    by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day  
    of __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    Attachment 1:  Memorandum of Agreement between Sound Transit and the  
    City of Seattle for Undergrounding of Overhead Utilities Along Martin  
    Luther King, Jr. Way South  
  
    10/5/03  
    version 3  
    t  
  
    MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
  
    BETWEEN SOUND TRANSIT AND THE CITY OF SEATTLE FOR UNDERGROUNDING OF  
    OVERHEAD UTILITIES ALONG MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.WAY SOUTH  
  
    THIS MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT, dated ____________, 2003 is made between  
    the CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY ("Sound Transit")  
    and the CITY OF SEATTLE ("City"), referred to collectively as  
    "Parties" or individually as "Party."  
  
    RECITALS  
  
    WHEREAS, Sound Transit is planning to construct a segment of the  
    Central Link Light Rail Project known as Contract C735 along Martin  
    Luther King, Jr. Way South ("MLK"), as defined by the C735 Contract  
    Documents; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Sound Transit is committed per Resolution R 2001-16 to pay up  
    to $13.5 million (year-of-expenditure dollars (YOE$)) for  
    undergrounding of utilities throughout the MLK light rail corridor;  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, (1) the City of Seattle and Sound Transit have agreed to  
    widen MLK to accommodate light rail, (2) the City has agreed to a  
    narrower sidewalk/planting strip width than the City's design  
    standards provide for arterial roadways, and the narrower design will  
    limit property acquisitions and impacts on adjacent properties, and  
    (3) the undergrounding of overhead utilities will remove all actual  
    and future conflicts between overhead utilities and the light rail  
    overhead catenary system running along the center of MLK; and  
  
    WHEREAS, on September 27, 2001, the Sound Transit Board of Directors  
    passed Motion M2001-103 stating that "Sound Transit will continue to  
    pursue funding opportunities with other partners for undergrounding  
    utilities on Martin Luther King, Jr. Way South.  Funds dedicated to  
    undergrounding in the light rail budget will not be increased above  
    current levels, but can be used to leverage other funds"; and  
  
    WHEREAS, on April 22, 2002, the Seattle City Council adopted  
    Resolution 30459 supporting the relocation and placement underground  
    of City-owned and  privately-owned electric and communication  
    utilities along MLK in conjunction with Sound Transit's light rail  
    construction and directing the Mayor to negotiate and submit for  
    Council review and approval the agreement with Sound Transit defining  
    the terms and conditions for City payments for undergrounding.  The  
    Resolution further provides that: (1) the City shall pay for the cost  
    of undergrounding City-owned electric utilities, including lighting  
    infrastructure, within commercially zoned areas, subject to a cap on  
    the City's contribution of $19.8 million in 2002 dollars; (2) the City  
    will work closely with Sound Transit to assist, plan, and execute the  
    undergrounding work as appropriate; and (3) the City shall be  
    responsible for installation of electrical cables, related electrical  
    equipment, and electrical connections; and  
  
    WHEREAS, on April 25, 2002, the Sound Transit Board of Directors  
    passed Motion M2002-57 authorizing the Executive Director to: (1)  
    initiate the final design for undergrounding utilities on MLK (from  
    approximately the McClellan Station to South Barton Street) in  
    conjunction with completion of final design for the Central Link Light  
    Rail Program and to develop a cost estimate and identify impacts of  
    undergrounding utilities; and (2) based upon a refined cost estimate  
    and identification of impacts, negotiate an agreement with the City to  
    define terms and conditions for undergrounding utilities on MLK; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Sound Transit and the City plan to concurrently execute a  
    Construction Services Agreement that will further specify the  
    construction details of the Initial Segment, including undergrounding  
    of utilities on MLK as described below and in subsequent task orders  
    and work orders.  
  
    NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the terms, conditions, covenants,  
    and performances contained herein, the Parties agree as follows:  
  
    I.  DEFINITIONS  
  
    A. "95% Designs" means: the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit  
    Authority Contract No. C730 Final Design Drawings, 2003 95% Submittal,  
    dated January 31, 2003; and the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit  
    Authority Contract No. C740 Final Design Drawings, 2003 95% Submittal,  
    dated January 31, 2003; and the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit  
    Authority Contract No. C720 Final Design Drawings, 2003 90% Submittal,  
    dated March 7, 2003.  The 95% Designs define the Undergrounding Work  
    to be carried out in the Undergrounding Area, which is the basis for  
    the Undergrounding Cost.  
  
    B.  "City Cost" means the estimated cost that the City shall pay for  
    Undergrounding Work, as described in greater detail in Section V.B,  
    and summarized in Exhibit A.  
  
    C. "City Work" means the Undergrounding Work that the City will  
    perform, including removing overhead City-owned Utilities, and  
    furnishing and installing electrical wiring, as described in greater  
    detail in Section IV.C.  
  
    D.  "City-owned Utilities" means the electrical utilities owned by  
    Seattle City Light in the Undergrounding Area.  
  
    E. "Commercial Areas" means the areas within the Undergrounding Area  
    that are zoned by the City of Seattle as commercial.  As described in  
    greater detail in Section V, the estimated cost of Undergrounding Work  
    in Commercial Areas is the primary basis for estimating the City Cost.  
  
    F. Contract Documents" means the final designs and specifications  
    provided by Sound Transit to the City for issuance of a project  
    construction permit, and  issued to the Contractor for construction of  
    the Central Link Light Rail Project in the Undergrounding Area.  
  
    G. "Contractor" means Sound Transit's contractor for construction of  
    Sound Transit Work.  
  
    H. "Cost Estimate for City Work" means the cost estimate prepared by  
    the City for City Work based on the 95% Designs and RFP Contract  
    Documents.  
  
    I. "Cost Estimate for Sound Transit Work" means the cost estimate  
    prepared by Sound Transit for Sound Transit Work based on the 95%  
    Designs and RFP Contract Documents.  
  
    J.  "MLK" means Martin Luther King, Jr. Way South in the  
    Undergrounding Area.  
  
    K. "Non-commercial Areas" means the areas within the Undergrounding  
    Area that are zoned by the City of Seattle as residential or mixed-use  
    (mixed residential/commercial).  As described in greater detail in  
    Section V, the estimated cost of Undergrounding Work in Non-commercial  
    Areas is the primary basis for estimating the Sound Transit Cost.  
  
    L. "Privately-owned Utilities" means all overhead utilities in the  
    Undergrounding Area, except those owned by Seattle City Light.  
  
    M. "RFP Contract Documents" means the Central Puget Sound Regional  
    Transit Authority Request for Proposals, Rainier Valley Construction  
    C735, RFP No. RTA/LR 99-02, June 2003.  The RFP Contract Documents  
    include specifications for availability of Seattle City Light  
    construction crews for City Work that are part of the basis for the  
    Undergrounding Cost.  
  
    N. "Sound Transit Cost" means the estimated cost that Sound Transit  
    shall pay for Undergrounding Work, as described in greater detail in  
    Section V.C, and summarized in Exhibit A.  
  
    O. "Sound Transit Work" means the Undergrounding Work that Sound  
    Transit or the Contractor will perform, including construction of  
    civil infrastructure for the Undergrounding Work, as described in  
    greater detail in Section IV.B.  
  
    P.  "Undergrounding Area" means the segment of the Central Link Light  
    Rail Project that runs from the east portal of the Beacon Hill tunnel,  
    near South McClellan Street and west of Rainier Avenue South, to MLK,  
    and then along MLK from South Winthrop Street to Beacon Avenue South.  
    The Undergrounding Area includes the Central Link Light Rail alignment  
    in this area, and portions of the streets crossing the alignment in  
    this area, as reflected in the 95% Designs.  
  
    Q. "Undergrounding Cost" means the Cost Estimate for Undergrounding  
    Work, as described in greater detail in Section V.A, and summarized in  
    Exhibit A.  
  
    R.  "Undergrounding Work" means the City Work and Sound Transit Work  
    to be carried out in the Undergrounding Area.  
  
    S.  "Utilities" means the City-owned Utilities and Privately-owned  
    Utilities within the Undergrounding Area.  
  
    II.   SCOPE  
  
    A. General Scope  
  
    This Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions under which Sound  
    Transit and the City will remove the existing Utilities in the  
    Undergrounding Area; plan, design, and construct overhead and  
    underground Utilities in the Undergrounding Area; and make payments to  
    each other for Undergrounding Work.  The Undergrounding Work shall  
    include all necessary design, relocation and placement of Utilities in  
    the Undergrounding Area as shown in the 95% Designs, and as described  
    in the RFP Contract Documents.  
  
    B. Allocation of Responsibility and Risk  
  
    Sound Transit and the City agree to allocate the responsibilities for  
    designing and constructing the Undergrounding Work under this  
    Agreement, so that Sound Transit is generally responsible for the  
    design and construction of the civil infrastructure, and the City is  
    generally responsible for electrical design and placing the City-owned  
    utilities underground.  Each of the Parties' respective  
    responsibilities for design and construction are set forth more fully  
    in Section IV. Both Parties agree to share the costs for the  
    Undergrounding Work, with Sound Transit having primary responsibility  
    for the Undergrounding Cost in Non-commercial Areas, and the City  
    having primary responsibility for the Undergrounding Cost in  
    Commercial Areas.  In addition, each Party bears the risk of cost  
    overruns and the benefits of cost savings in the Undergrounding Work  
    for which it is responsible for design and construction, except for  
    changes made to the Undergrounding Work subsequent to the RFP Contract  
    Documents.  Any changes subsequent to the RFP Contract Documents shall  
    be negotiated by the Parties in accordance with the cost  
    responsibilities of the Parties as set forth more fully in Section V.  
  
    C.  Relationship to Other Agreements  
  
      This Agreement has been developed concurrently with the "Sound  
    Transit/City of Seattle Construction Services Agreement," which  
    provides greater detail on the roles and responsibilities of each  
    Party during construction of the Central Link Light Rail Project.  The  
    terms and conditions of the Sound Transit/City of Seattle Construction  
    Services Agreement shall apply to the Undergrounding Work and are  
    incorporated herein by reference.  In the event of a conflict between  
    the two agreements, this Agreement shall take precedence.  
  
    III. DESIGN AND COST ESTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY  
  
    A. Design and Cost Estimate by Sound Transit  
  
    Sound Transit shall complete the final civil design for the  
    Undergrounding Work by incorporating overhead and underground  
    utilities into the civil designs for the Central Link Light Rail  
    Project in the Undergrounding Area in collaboration with applicable  
    private utilities and City departments, and by designing the lighting  
    infrastructure and spare conduits and appurtenances for future use in  
    accordance with City standards as specified in the RFP Contract  
    Documents.  Sound Transit has prepared a Cost Estimate for Sound  
    Transit Work, shown in Exhibit A, which includes estimated design,  
    construction, and construction management costs for Sound Transit  
    Work, including contingency.  
  
    B. Design and Cost Estimate by the City  
  
    The City shall complete the final electrical design of overhead and  
    underground City-owned Utilities in the Undergrounding Area.   The  
    City shall assist Sound Transit in the design layout of the civil  
    infrastructure by providing the electrical design necessary to support  
    a complete civil design, including lateral service connections on  
    public and private property.  The City has prepared a Cost Estimate  
    for City Work, shown in Exhibit A, which includes the estimated  
    design, construction and construction management costs for City Work,  
    including indirect costs, overhead, and contingency.  
  
    IV. CONSTRUCTION RESPONSIBILITY  
  
    A. Coordination of Undergrounding Work  
  
    Upon completion of 95% Designs, the City and Sound Transit jointly  
    developed a construction schedule and staging plan for the  
    Undergrounding Work, which is included in the RFP Contract Documents.  
    During construction, the City and Sound Transit shall coordinate  
    construction schedules and work sequences to expedite Undergrounding  
    Work progress and minimize delays.  Sound Transit shall provide  
    scheduling coordination with the Contractor and private utilities with  
    the cooperation and support of the City.  Any changes to the schedule  
    for Undergrounding Work shall require communication, review, and  
    concurrence between Sound Transit and the City.  
  
    B.  Construction Responsibility of Sound Transit (Sound Transit Work)  
  
    1. Sound Transit shall be responsible for the construction of the  
    civil infrastructure for the Undergrounding Work, including trenches,  
    conduit, structures, street light poles and foundations, and lateral  
    service ducts.  All Sound Transit Work shall be constructed to Seattle  
    City Light's 2003 Material Standards, Construction Guidelines, and  
    Stock Catalog specified in the RFP Contract Documents, or as shown in  
    the Contract Documents if variances from RFP Contract Documents are  
    implemented with the City's concurrence, and subject to the City's  
    inspection and satisfaction.  
  
    2. Sound Transit shall be responsible for obtaining all permits  
    necessary for construction of the civil infrastructure.  
  
    3. Sound Transit shall be responsible for obtaining all the necessary  
    property rights of access required to support Sound Transit's  
    construction program, including but not limited to right of entry or  
    easement agreements with private property owners and tenants for the  
    purpose of completing the Undergrounding Work.  
  
    4. Sound Transit shall be responsible for coordinating construction of  
    Privately-owned Utilities, which shall include the scheduling and  
    facilitation of regular coordination meetings with the Contractor, the  
    City, and Privately-owned Utilities.  Sound Transit shall work with  
    the Contractor, the City, and Privately-owned Utilities to update the  
    schedule and sequence for construction of the Undergrounding Work.  
  
    C. Construction Responsibility of the City (City Work)  
  
    1. The City shall be responsible for removing City-owned Utilities,  
    furnishing and installing electrical wiring, transformers, meters, and  
    switches associated with undergrounding of City-owned Utilities, and  
    making the necessary rearrangements, modifications, and additions to  
    City-owned Utilities that will remain overhead to accommodate  
    undergrounding of City-owned Utilities.  
  
    2. The City shall provide the necessary work force and resources  
    required to support Sound Transit's construction schedule, as set  
    forth in the RFP Contract Documents.  The City shall be responsible  
    for obtaining all street use permits for the purpose of installing  
    electric wire in the right of way.  The City shall be responsible for  
    any installation of City-owned Utilities on private property through  
    existing City ordinance or Seattle City Light service agreements.  The  
    City shall coordinate its work with other facility owners and  
    contractors performing undergrounding of utilities that may connect,  
    complement or interfere with the City's work or facilities.  
    Coordination with parties other than the Parties to this Agreement  
    shall be through Sound Transit.  The City shall attend coordination  
    meetings as requested to facilitate coordination and help maintain the  
    project schedule by adjusting its work force and construction sequence  
    to mitigate project delays.  
  
    V.  COST RESPONSIBILITY  
  
    A. Undergrounding Cost  
  
    As described in Section III, Sound Transit has prepared a Cost  
    Estimate for Sound Transit Work, and the City has prepared a Cost  
    Estimate for City Work.  Together, these cost estimates constitute the  
    Cost Estimate for Undergrounding Work summarized in Exhibit A.  Within  
    the Cost Estimate for City Work and the Cost Estimate for Sound  
    Transit Work, the Parties agreed to an allocation of the estimated  
    costs for City Work and Sound Transit Work for relocating City-owned  
    Utilities into two categories: 1) Commercial Areas; and 2) Non-  
    commercial Areas.  The allocation of costs for Commercial Areas is  
    included in Exhibit A under the column labeled City Cost, and the  
    allocation of costs for Non-commercial Areas is included in Exhibit A  
    under the column labeled Sound Transit Cost.  This allocation of costs  
    is the primary basis for determining the City Cost and Sound Transit  
    Cost.  Other factors used for determining the City Cost and Sound  
    Transit Cost are described in greater detail in Sections V.B and V.C.  
    Any changes subsequent to the 95% Designs and RFP Contract Documents  
    that are not reflected in the Undergrounding Cost are subject to  
    negotiation by the Parties, and the cost (or cost reduction) for such  
    changes shall be estimated and allocated between the Parties  
    consistent with the principles used in developing the cost estimates  
    and allocation of costs in Exhibit A.  
  
    B. City Cost  
  
      The City shall have cost responsibility for the City Cost, which  
    includes:  
  
    * The estimated cost for Undergrounding Work for City-owned Utilities  
    in Commercial Areas, including design, civil and ductbank  
    construction, electrical wire and equipment, and installation, but  
    excluding electrical service connections;  
  
    * The estimated cost for street light poles and foundations in  
    Commercial Areas; and  
  
    * The estimated cost for spare conduit/appurtenances for future use by  
    Seattle City Light throughout the Undergrounding Area, in both  
    Commercial Areas and Non-commercial Areas, and for spare  
    conduit/appurtenances for future use by other parties to the extent  
    agreed upon by Sound Transit and the City as reflected in Exhibit A.  
  
    The City Cost is $14,999,000 (in 2002 dollars).  
  
    C.   Sound Transit Cost  
  
    Sound Transit shall have cost responsibility for the Sound Transit  
    Cost, which includes:  
  
    * The estimated cost for Undergrounding Work for City-owned Utilities  
    in Non-commercial Areas, including design, civil and ductbank  
    construction, electrical wire and equipment, and installation;  
  
    * The estimated cost of street light poles and foundations in Non-  
    commercial Areas;  
  
    * The estimated cost for electrical service connections in both  
    Commercial Areas and Non-commercial Areas; and  
  
    * The estimated cost for undergrounding project design, civil and  
    ductbank construction, wire and equipment, and installation in  
    undergrounding Privately-owned Utilities in Commercial Areas and Non-  
    commercial Areas.  Sound Transit may recover a portion of these costs  
    from participating private utilities.  
  
    The Sound Transit Cost is $14,904,000 (in 2002 dollars), including  
    amounts reimbursed by participating private utilities.  
  
    D.  Limitations on Cost Responsibility  
  
    1. The City's share of the Cost Estimate for Sound Transit Work that  
    is part of the City Cost shall be fixed at $11,158,000 (2002 dollars)  
    as shown in Exhibit A, except as provided for in this section.  The  
    City shall have no cost responsibility for any cost overruns for Sound  
    Transit Work, except for any change in the Undergrounding Work  
    schedule or scope by change order issued at the request of the City  
    for the City's benefit.  
  
    2. Sound Transit's share of the Cost Estimate for City Work that is  
    part of the Sound Transit Cost shall be fixed at $3,244,000 (2002  
    dollars) as shown in Exhibit A, except as provided for in this  
    section.  Sound Transit shall have no cost responsibility for any cost  
    overruns for City Work, except for any change in the Undergrounding  
    Work schedule or scope by change order issued at the request of Sound  
    Transit for Sound Transit's benefit, and except that Sound Transit  
    shall bear the cost responsibility for electrical service connections  
    throughout the project corridor.  
  
    3. Any adjustments to the Undergrounding Work schedule or scope  
    subsequent to the RFP Contract Documents will be negotiated by the  
    Parties consistent with the provisions of Section V.  If the City  
    causes a change in the Undergrounding Work schedule or scope that  
    affects the Cost Estimate for Sound Transit Work, then the City shall  
    bear the cost responsibility of such change.  If Sound Transit causes  
    a change in the Undergrounding Work schedule or scope that affects the  
    Cost Estimate for City Work, then Sound Transit shall bear the cost  
    responsibility of such change.  Changes in the Undergrounding Work  
    schedule or scope shall be documented by written change order, in  
    accordance with the general provisions of Sound Transit's construction  
    contract.  
  
    E. Condition Precedent to City Cost Responsibility  
  
    The City shall not be obligated to make any payments to Sound Transit  
    for Undergrounding Work until Sound Transit has executed a Full  
    Funding Grant Agreement ("FFGA") with the Federal Transit  
    Administration in the amount of $500 million or in an amount that  
    Sound Transit finds sufficient to implement the Central Link Light  
    Rail Project on substantially the same schedule and scope as is  
    reflected in Resolution 2001-16, approved by the Sound Transit Board  
    on November 29, 2001.  
  
    F. Construction Outside City Limits  
  
    Sound Transit shall pay for all costs of relocating City-owned  
    Utilities outside of the City of Seattle necessitated by light rail  
    construction unless otherwise agreed to by the City of Seattle.  
  
    VI. PAYMENTS  
  
    A. Payments by Sound Transit  
  
    Sound Transit shall pay the City for City Work on a monthly basis  
    after City Work commences.  Procedures for City reporting and Sound  
    Transit payment for these expenses shall be as described in the Sound  
    Transit/City of Seattle Construction Services Agreement.  The City  
    shall reimburse Sound Transit for the City's share of payments by  
    Sound Transit for the City Work in accordance with Section VI.C below.  
  
    B. Reimbursements by the City for Sound Transit Work  
  
    The City shall reimburse Sound Transit for the City's share of the  
    Cost Estimate for Sound Transit Work that is part of the City Cost as  
    provided in Section V and shown on Exhibit A.  The City shall make  
    payments on a quarterly basis beginning the first quarter in 2005.  
    The City shall structure substantially equal payments, so that Sound  
    Transit is fully reimbursed by December 2007. For City reimbursements  
    for Sound Transit Work, the Cost Estimate for Sound Transit Work shall  
    be adjusted annually from 2002 dollars to the mid-point of  
    construction, which for purposes of this Agreement is established as  
    July 2005, applying the CPI-U (Seattle, Tacoma, Bremerton, BLS). This  
    inflation adjustment shall be made by Sound Transit when construction  
    commences, and the adjustment shall be reported to the City of  
    Seattle. The City shall pay interest of 3.9% annually, compounded  
    quarterly, on the adjusted amounts owing to Sound Transit, which  
    interest shall accrue from the date of payment by Sound Transit and  
    shall be calculated at the month end on outstanding reimbursement  
    amounts owed to Sound Transit.  
  
      C.  Reimbursements by the City for City Work  
  
    The City shall also reimburse Sound Transit on a quarterly basis  
    beginning the first quarter in 2005 for the City's share of payments  
    by Sound Transit for City Work that Sound Transit has previously paid  
    the City under Section VI.A above.  The Cost Estimate for City Work  
    shall be adjusted annually from 2002 dollars to the mid-point of  
    construction, which for purposes of this Agreement is established as  
    July 2005, applying the CPI-U (Seattle, Tacoma Bremerton, BLS). This  
    inflation adjustment shall be performed by Sound Transit when  
    construction commences and reported to the City of Seattle.  The  
    City's share of Sound Transit's payments for City Work that Sound  
    Transit has previously paid shall be calculated by deducting the Sound  
    Transit Cost for City Work from the total amount of payments made by  
    Sound Transit under Section VIA. The City shall structure  
    substantially equal payments so that Sound Transit is fully reimbursed  
    by December 2007.   For City reimbursements for City Work previously  
    paid by Sound Transit to the City under Section VI.A, the City shall  
    pay interest of 3.9% annually, compounded quarterly, on the adjusted  
    amounts owing to Sound Transit, which interest shall accrue from the  
    date of payment by Sound Transit and shall be calculated at the month  
    end on outstanding reimbursement amounts owed to Sound Transit.  
  
      D. Payments and Supporting Reports  
  
    Sound Transit and the City shall collaborate to develop a template for  
    monthly reports on the Undergrounding Work and Undergrounding Cost.  
    As part of these monthly reports, Sound Transit will provide the City  
    with documentation of Sound Transit's expenses and the Contractors'  
    expenses in an agreed upon template that (1) states that Sound Transit  
    has reviewed and approved the work; (2) verifies that the work is  
    eligible for reimbursement by the City; and (3) includes actual costs  
    and backup information as determined by the City's standard  
    reimbursement policies.  The City shall provide Sound Transit with  
    documentation of its requests for payment to meet Sound Transit's  
    project control policies and applicable Federal Transit Administration  
    requirements.  The City reports shall also provide information on  
    expenses incurred by the City for City Work sufficient to provide the  
    basis for the calculation of reimbursements by the City for City Work  
    as described in Section VIC.  
  
    VII.  PROJECT ADMINISTRATION  
  
    A.  Designated Representatives  
  
    To provide for consistent and effective communication, the designated  
    formal points of contact and coordination for this Agreement are as  
    follows:  
  
    Sound Transit  
    Tony Raben  
    Sound Transit Line Segment Manager  
    401 S. Jackson Street  
    Seattle, WA 98104  
    Phone: (206) 689-3326  
  
    City of Seattle  
    Jonathan Layzer  
    Sound Transit Program Manager  
    Seattle Department of Transportation  
    700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3900  
    Seattle, WA 98104  
    Phone (206) 684-8084  
  
    A Party may change the Designated Representative or address to which  
    such communications are to be directed by giving written notice to the  
    other Party in the manner provided in this Agreement.  
  
    B.  Contract Management  
  
    Each of the Parties shall be solely responsible for the execution,  
    administration, and fulfillment of any third party contracts executed  
    by the Party except as provided in this Agreement.  In no event shall  
    any such third party contract be construed as obligating the other  
    Party.  All third party contracts shall comply with all applicable  
    public works and procurement laws and regulations.  
  
    C.  Responsibility for Quality of Work  
  
    Each Party shall be responsible for the quality, technical accuracy,  
    and the coordination of all services furnished under this Agreement.  
    Sound Transit shall make available, upon request, to the City and its  
    consultants, without cost, copies of reference documents related to  
    the Project that are readily available and on file at Sound Transit.  
    Except as specifically provided in this Agreement, these documents are  
    available solely as additional information to the City or its  
    consultants and do not relieve the City or its consultants of their  
    respective duties and obligations under this Agreement, nor constitute  
    a representation or warranty by Sound Transit of any kind.  
  
    D.  Termination of Agreement  
  
    Termination of this Agreement by either Party shall be as provided in  
    the Sound Transit/City of Seattle Construction Services Agreement.  
  
    VIII.  DISPUTE RESOLUTION  
  
    Sound Transit and the City will work collaboratively to resolve  
    disagreements arising from activities performed under this Agreement.  
    The Parties shall follow the Dispute Resolution Procedures of the  
    Sound Transit/City of Seattle Construction Services Agreement to  
    resolve disputes arising under this Agreement.  
  
    IX.  LEGAL RELATIONS  
  
    A.  Indemnity  
  
    To the extent permitted by law, each Party to this Agreement shall  
    protect, defend, indemnify, and save harmless the other Party, and its  
    officers, officials, employees, and agents, while acting within the  
    scope of their employment, from any and all costs, claims, demands,  
    judgments, damages, or liability of any kind including injuries to  
    persons or damages to property, which arise out of, or in any way  
    result from, or are connected to, or are due to, any negligent acts or  
    omissions of the indemnifying Party.  No Party shall be required to  
    indemnify, defend, or save harmless the other Party if the claim,  
    suit, or action for injuries, death, or damages is caused by the sole  
    negligence of the Party seeking indemnification.  Where such claims,  
    suits, or actions result from concurrent negligence of the Parties,  
    the indemnity provisions provided herein shall be valid and  
    enforceable only to the extent of the Party's own negligence.  Each  
    Party agrees that its obligations under this indemnification section  
    extend to any claim, demand, and/or cause of action brought by, or on  
    behalf of, any of its employees or agents.  For this purpose, each  
    Party, by mutual negotiation, hereby waives, with respect to the other  
    Party only, any immunity that would otherwise be available against  
    such claims under the industrial insurance provisions of Title 51 RCW.  
    In the event of any claims, demands, actions and lawsuits, the  
    indemnifying Party upon prompt notice from the other Party shall  
    assume all costs of defense thereof, including legal fees incurred by  
    the other Party, and of all resulting judgments that may be obtained  
    against the other Party.   In the event that any Party incurs attorney  
    fees, costs or other legal expenses to enforce the provisions of this  
    section, all such fees, costs and expenses shall be recoverable by the  
    prevailing Party. This indemnification shall survive the expiration or  
    earlier termination of this Agreement.  
  
    B.  Governing Law and Venue  
  
    This Agreement will be governed by, and construed and enforced in  
    accordance with, the laws of the State of Washington.  In the event  
    that any Party deems it necessary to institute legal action or  
    proceedings to enforce any right or obligation under this Agreement,  
    the Parties hereto agree that any such action or proceedings shall be  
    brought in King County Superior Court in Seattle, King County,  
    Washington.  
  
    C.  Insurance and Indemnity Provisions of Construction Contracts  
  
    The Parties shall extend the insurance and indemnification provisions  
    of the construction contracts related to this Agreement to include  
    each other.  The City shall include in any third party contracts  
    provisions to include Sound Transit as an "Additional Named Insured"  
    in any insurance policies that the City's third party contractors are  
    required to provide and include Sound Transit as an indemnitee in  
    language relating to legal relations with third parties.  Sound  
    Transit shall include in any third party contract provisions to  
    include the City as an "Additional Named Insured" in any insurance  
    policies that Sound Transit's third party contractors are required to  
    provide and include the City as an indemnitee in language relating to  
    legal relations with third parties.  
  
    D. Allocation of Risk by Sound Transit and the City  
  
      For City Work, replacement or repair of damage to the City Work is  
    the responsibility of the City.  For Sound Transit Work, replacement  
    or repair of damage to the Sound Transit Work is the responsibility of  
    Sound Transit.  Except to the extent covered by insurance, each Party  
    shall bear its respective responsibility for the constructed work  
    performed under Section IV until the work is accepted as provided in  
    the Sound Transit/City of Seattle Construction Services Agreement.  
  
    E.  No Agency or Employee Relationship  
  
    No joint venture or partnership is formed as a result of this  
    Agreement.  No employees, agents or subcontractors of one Party shall  
    be deemed, or represent themselves to be, employees of the other  
    Party.  
  
    1.  In performing work and services pursuant to this Agreement, the  
    City, its employees, consultants, agents, and representatives shall be  
    acting as agents of the City and shall not be deemed or construed to  
    be employees or agents of Sound Transit in any manner whatsoever.  The  
    City shall not hold itself out as, nor claim to be, an officer or  
    employee of Sound Transit and will not make any claim, demand, or  
    application to or for any right or privilege applicable to an officer  
    or employee of Sound Transit.  The City shall be solely responsible  
    for any claims for wages or compensation by the City's employees,  
    consultants, agents, and representatives, including sub-consultants,  
    or any agency, and shall defend, indemnify and hold Sound Transit  
    harmless therefrom.  
  
    2.  In performing work and services pursuant to this Agreement, Sound  
    Transit, its employees, consultants, agents, and representatives shall  
    be acting as agents of Sound Transit and shall not be deemed or  
    construed to be employees or agents of the City in any manner  
    whatsoever.  Sound Transit shall not hold itself out as, nor claim to  
    be, an officer or employee of the City and will not make any claim,  
    demand, or application to or for any right or privilege applicable to  
    an officer or employee of the City.  Sound Transit shall be solely  
    responsible for any claims for wages or compensation by Sound  
    Transit's employees, consultants, agents, and representatives,  
    including sub-consultants, or any agency, and shall defend, indemnify  
    and hold the City harmless therefrom.  
  
    F.  Notices  
  
    All notices or requests required or permitted under this Agreement  
    shall be in writing, shall be personally delivered, or sent by  
    certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or by  
    facsimile transmission and shall be deemed to have been duly given if  
    in writing and delivered either personally, by facsimile transmission,  
    or by certified mail, to the designated representative of the other  
    Party as named in this Agreement.  
  
    G.  Interpretation  
  
    This written Agreement is the result of mutual negotiations between  
    the Parties and any ambiguity herein is not to be construed against  
    any Party but shall be construed according to the fair intent of the  
    language and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of  
    Washington.  
  
    H.  Availability of Records  
  
      All project records in support of all costs incurred and actual  
    expenditures kept by the Parties shall be maintained in accordance  
    with procedures prescribed by the Washington State Auditor's Office  
    and the applicable Federal funding agencies. The records shall be open  
    to inspection by the Parties and the Federal government during normal  
    business hours, and shall be retained and made available for such  
    inspection for a period of not less than six years from the final  
    payment of any federal funds to Sound Transit. Copies of said records  
    shall be furnished to the Parties and/or the Federal government upon  
    request.  This requirement shall be included in all subcontracts  
    related to the work entered into by the Parties to fulfill the terms  
    of this Agreement.  
  
    I.  Audit  
  
    If an audit is requested by Sound Transit or required by any  
    applicable federal agency requirements, the City agrees to cooperate  
    fully with Sound Transit's auditor, with any independent auditor  
    chosen and retained by Sound Transit for auditing expenditures under  
    this Agreement, or with any auditor required by the federal funding  
    agency, if applicable.  At the time of a federal audit, if required,  
    the City will provide documentation of all costs incurred under this  
    Agreement.  
  
    J.  Compliance with Existing Laws  
  
    Each Party shall comply, and to the best of its ability shall ensure  
    that its employees, agents, consultants, contractors and  
    representatives comply, with all federal, state, and local laws,  
    regulations, and ordinances applicable to the work and services to be  
    performed.  The work performed by Sound Transit and the City under  
    this Agreement shall comply with all applicable public works and  
    procurement laws and regulations.  
  
    K.  Waiver of Rights  
  
    In the exercise of its rights and obligations under this Agreement,  
    except as allowed by the provisions of this Agreement, neither Party  
    shall provide, without the consent of the other Party, any contractor  
    with a release that waives or purports to waive any rights such other  
    Party may have to seek relief or redress against such contractor  
    either pursuant to any cause of action that such other Party may have  
    or for violation of any law.  
  
    L.  No Waiver  
  
    No act or failure to act on the part of either Party with respect to  
    the exercise or enforcement of any provision of this Agreement shall  
    be deemed to be a waiver on the part of either Party of any provision  
    of this Agreement.  No waiver of one provision by either Party shall  
    act as a waiver of any other provision or as a subsequent waiver of  
    the same provision.  No waiver shall be effective against either Party  
    except an express waiver in writing.  
  
    M.  Binding on Successors  
  
    All of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Agreement will be  
    binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties hereto and their  
    respective successors, permitted assigns and legal representatives.  
  
    N.  No Third Party Rights  
  
    Nothing in this Agreement, whether express or implied, is intended to  
    (1) confer any rights or remedies under or by reason of this Agreement  
    on any persons other than the Parties to it and their respective  
    successors and permitted assigns; (2) relieve or discharge the  
    obligation or liability of any third party to a Party to this  
    Agreement; nor (3) give any third parties any right of subrogation or  
    action over or against the other Party to this Agreement.  
  
    O. Amendment/Modification  
  
    The Parties reserve the right to amend this Agreement.  No addition or  
    modification to this Agreement shall be binding upon the Parties  
    unless reduced to writing, legally authorized by Seattle Ordinance and  
    Sound Transit Motion if and as necessary, and executed by an  
    authorized representative of the Parties.  
  
    P.  Assignment  
  
    Neither Party shall assign any interest, obligation, or benefit in  
    this Agreement or transfer any interest in the same, whether by  
    assignment or novation, without prior written consent by the other  
    Party.  
  
    Q.  Severability  
  
    If any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement are determined to  
    be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the  
    remaining terms and conditions unaffected thereby shall remain in full  
    force and effect.  The Parties agree to negotiate in good faith to  
    reform the Agreement to replace any invalid or unenforceable term  
    and/or condition with a valid and enforceable term and/or condition  
    that comes as close as possible to the intention of the stricken term  
    and/or condition.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this Agreement as  
    of the day and year first above written.  
  
    CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY         CITY OF SEATTLE  
    _____________________________________________          ________________  
    By:                                                    By:  
    Title: Chief Executive Officer                         Title: Mayor  
    Date:  _____________________________________           Date:  _________  
  
    List of Exhibits  
    Exhibit A - Cost Estimate for Undergrounding Work  
    Sheet 1:    Undergrounding Cost Summary Sheet  
    Sheet 2:    Undergrounding Cost Detail Sheet  
  
    10/4/03  
    t  
  
    MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
  
    BETWEEN SOUND TRANSIT AND THE CITY OF SEATTLE FOR UNDERGROUNDING OF  
    OVERHEAD UTILITIES ALONG MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.WAY SOUTH  
  
    THIS MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT, dated ____________, 2003 is made between  
    the CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY ("Sound Transit")  
    and the CITY OF SEATTLE ("City"), referred to collectively as  
    "Parties" or individually as "Party."  
  
    RECITALS  
  
    WHEREAS, Sound Transit is planning to construct a segment of the  
    Central Link Light Rail Project known as Contract C735 along Martin  
    Luther King, Jr. Way South ("MLK"), as defined by the C735 Contract  
    Documents; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Sound Transit is committed per Resolution R 2001-16 to pay up  
    to $13.5 million (year-of-expenditure dollars (YOE$)) for  
    undergrounding of utilities throughout the MLK light rail corridor;  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, (1) the City of Seattle and Sound Transit have agreed to  
    widen MLK to accommodate light rail, (2) the City has agreed to a  
    narrower sidewalk/planting strip width than the City's design  
    standards provide for arterial roadways, and the narrower design will  
    limit property acquisitions and impacts on adjacent properties, and  
    (3) the undergrounding of overhead utilities will remove all actual  
    and future conflicts between overhead utilities and the light rail  
    overhead catenary system running along the center of MLK; and  
  
    WHEREAS, on September 27, 2001, the Sound Transit Board of Directors  
    passed Motion M2001-103 stating that "Sound Transit will continue to  
    pursue funding opportunities with other partners for undergrounding  
    utilities on Martin Luther King, Jr. Way South.  Funds dedicated to  
    undergrounding in the light rail budget will not be increased above  
    current levels, but can be used to leverage other funds"; and  
  
    WHEREAS, on April 22, 2002, the Seattle City Council adopted  
    Resolution 30459 supporting the relocation and placement underground  
    of City-owned and  privately-owned electric and communication  
    utilities along MLK in conjunction with Sound Transit's light rail  
    construction and directing the Mayor to negotiate and submit for  
    Council review and approval the agreement with Sound Transit defining  
    the terms and conditions for City payments for undergrounding.  The  
    Resolution further provides that: (1) the City shall pay for the cost  
    of undergrounding City-owned electric utilities, including lighting  
    infrastructure, within commercially zoned areas, subject to a cap on  
    the City's contribution of $19.8 million in 2002 dollars; (2) the City  
    will work closely with Sound Transit to assist, plan, and execute the  
    undergrounding work as appropriate; and (3) the City shall be  
    responsible for installation of electrical cables, related electrical  
    equipment, and electrical connections; and  
  
    WHEREAS, on April 25, 2002, the Sound Transit Board of Directors  
    passed Motion M2002-57 authorizing the Executive Director to: (1)  
    initiate the final design for undergrounding utilities on MLK (from  
    approximately the McClellan Station to South Barton Street) in  
    conjunction with completion of final design for the Central Link Light  
    Rail Program and to develop a cost estimate and identify impacts of  
    undergrounding utilities; and (2) based upon a refined cost estimate  
    and identification of impacts, negotiate an agreement with the City to  
    define terms and conditions for undergrounding utilities on MLK; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Sound Transit and the City plan to concurrently execute a  
    Construction Services Agreement that will further specify the  
    construction details of the Initial Segment, including undergrounding  
    of utilities on MLK as described below and in subsequent task orders  
    and work orders.  
  
    NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the terms, conditions, covenants,  
    and performances contained herein, the Parties agree as follows:  
  
    I.  DEFINITIONS  
  
    A. "95% Designs" means: the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit  
    Authority Contract No. C730 Final Design Drawings, 2003 95% Submittal,  
    dated January 31, 2003; and the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit  
    Authority Contract No. C740 Final Design Drawings, 2003 95% Submittal,  
    dated January 31, 2003; and the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit  
    Authority Contract No. C720 Final Design Drawings, 2003 90% Submittal,  
    dated March 7, 2003.  The 95% Designs define the Undergrounding Work  
    to be carried out in the Undergrounding Area, which is the basis for  
    the Undergrounding Cost.  
  
    B.  "City Cost" means the estimated cost that the City shall pay for  
    Undergrounding Work, as described in greater detail in Section V.B,  
    and summarized in Exhibit A.  
  
    C. "City Work" means the Undergrounding Work that the City will  
    perform, including removing overhead City-owned Utilities, and  
    furnishing and installing electrical wiring, as described in greater  
    detail in Section IV.C.  
  
    D.  "City-owned Utilities" means the electrical utilities owned by  
    Seattle City Light in the Undergrounding Area.  
  
    E. "Commercial Areas" means the areas within the Undergrounding Area  
    that are zoned by the City of Seattle as commercial.  As described in  
    greater detail in Section V, the estimated cost of Undergrounding Work  
    in Commercial Areas is the primary basis for estimating the City Cost.  
  
    F. Contract Documents" means the final designs and specifications  
    provided by Sound Transit to the City for issuance of a project  
    construction permit, and  issued to the Contractor for construction of  
    the Central Link Light Rail Project in the Undergrounding Area.  
  
    G. "Contractor" means Sound Transit's contractor for construction of  
    Sound Transit Work.  
  
    H. "Cost Estimate for City Work" means the cost estimate prepared by  
    the City for City Work based on the 95% Designs and RFP Contract  
    Documents.  
  
    I. "Cost Estimate for Sound Transit Work" means the cost estimate  
    prepared by Sound Transit for Sound Transit Work based on the 95%  
    Designs and RFP Contract Documents.  
  
    J.  "MLK" means Martin Luther King, Jr. Way South in the  
    Undergrounding Area.  
  
    K. "Non-commercial Areas" means the areas within the Undergrounding  
    Area that are zoned by the City of Seattle as residential or mixed-use  
    (mixed residential/commercial).  As described in greater detail in  
    Section V, the estimated cost of Undergrounding Work in Non-commercial  
    Areas is the primary basis for estimating the Sound Transit Cost.  
  
    L. "Privately-owned Utilities" means all overhead utilities in the  
    Undergrounding Area, except those owned by Seattle City Light.  
  
    M. "RFP Contract Documents" means the Central Puget Sound Regional  
    Transit Authority Request for Proposals, Rainier Valley Construction  
    C735, RFP No. RTA/LR 99-02, June 2003.  The RFP Contract Documents  
    include specifications for availability of Seattle City Light  
    construction crews for City Work that are part of the basis for the  
    Undergrounding Cost.  
  
    N. "Sound Transit Cost" means the estimated cost that Sound Transit  
    shall pay for Undergrounding Work, as described in greater detail in  
    Section V.C, and summarized in Exhibit A.  
  
    O. "Sound Transit Work" means the Undergrounding Work that Sound  
    Transit or the Contractor will perform, including construction of  
    civil infrastructure for the Undergrounding Work, as described in  
    greater detail in Section IV.B.  
  
    P.  "Undergrounding Area" means the segment of the Central Link Light  
    Rail Project that runs from the east portal of the Beacon Hill tunnel,  
    near South McClellan Street and west of Rainier Avenue South, to MLK,  
    and then along MLK from South Winthrop Street to Beacon Avenue South.  
    The Undergrounding Area includes the Central Link Light Rail alignment  
    in this area, and portions of the streets crossing the alignment in  
    this area, as reflected in the 95% Designs.  
  
    Q. "Undergrounding Cost" means the Cost Estimate for Undergrounding  
    Work, as described in greater detail in Section V.A, and summarized in  
    Exhibit A.  
  
    R.  "Undergrounding Work" means the City Work and Sound Transit Work  
    to be carried out in the Undergrounding Area.  
  
    S.  "Utilities" means the City-owned Utilities and Privately-owned  
    Utilities within the Undergrounding Area.  
  
    II.   SCOPE  
  
    A. General Scope  
  
    This Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions under which Sound  
    Transit and the City will remove the existing Utilities in the  
    Undergrounding Area; plan, design, and construct overhead and  
    underground Utilities in the Undergrounding Area; and make payments to  
    each other for Undergrounding Work.  The Undergrounding Work shall  
    include all necessary design, relocation and placement of Utilities in  
    the Undergrounding Area as shown in the 95% Designs, and as described  
    in the RFP Contract Documents.  
  
    B. Allocation of Responsibility and Risk  
  
    Sound Transit and the City agree to allocate the responsibilities for  
    designing and constructing the Undergrounding Work under this  
    Agreement, so that Sound Transit is generally responsible for the  
    design and construction of the civil infrastructure, and the City is  
    generally responsible for electrical design and placing the City-owned  
    utilities underground.  Each of the Parties' respective  
    responsibilities for design and construction are set forth more fully  
    in Section IV. Both Parties agree to share the costs for the  
    Undergrounding Work, with Sound Transit having primary responsibility  
    for the Undergrounding Cost in Non-commercial Areas, and the City  
    having primary responsibility for the Undergrounding Cost in  
    Commercial Areas.  In addition, each Party bears the risk of cost  
    overruns and the benefits of cost savings in the Undergrounding Work  
    for which it is responsible for design and construction, except for  
    changes made to the Undergrounding Work subsequent to the RFP Contract  
    Documents.  Any changes subsequent to the RFP Contract Documents shall  
    be negotiated by the Parties in accordance with the cost  
    responsibilities of the Parties as set forth more fully in Section V.  
  
    C.  Relationship to Other Agreements  
  
      This Agreement has been developed concurrently with the "Sound  
    Transit/City of Seattle Construction Services Agreement," which  
    provides greater detail on the roles and responsibilities of each  
    Party during construction of the Central Link Light Rail Project.  The  
    terms and conditions of the Sound Transit/City of Seattle Construction  
    Services Agreement shall apply to the Undergrounding Work and are  
    incorporated herein by reference.  In the event of a conflict between  
    the two agreements, this Agreement shall take precedence.  
  
    III. DESIGN AND COST ESTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY  
  
    A. Design and Cost Estimate by Sound Transit  
  
    Sound Transit shall complete the final civil design for the  
    Undergrounding Work by incorporating overhead and underground  
    utilities into the civil designs for the Central Link Light Rail  
    Project in the Undergrounding Area in collaboration with applicable  
    private utilities and City departments, and by designing the lighting  
    infrastructure and spare conduits and appurtenances for future use in  
    accordance with City standards as specified in the RFP Contract  
    Documents.  Sound Transit has prepared a Cost Estimate for Sound  
    Transit Work, shown in Exhibit A, which includes estimated design,  
    construction, and construction management costs for Sound Transit  
    Work, including contingency.  
  
    B. Design and Cost Estimate by the City  
  
    The City shall complete the final electrical design of overhead and  
    underground City-owned Utilities in the Undergrounding Area.   The  
    City shall assist Sound Transit in the design layout of the civil  
    infrastructure by providing the electrical design necessary to support  
    a complete civil design, including lateral service connections on  
    public and private property.  The City has prepared a Cost Estimate  
    for City Work, shown in Exhibit A, which includes the estimated  
    design, construction and construction management costs for City Work,  
    including indirect costs, overhead, and contingency.  
  
    IV. CONSTRUCTION RESPONSIBILITY  
  
    A. Coordination of Undergrounding Work  
  
    Upon completion of 95% Designs, the City and Sound Transit jointly  
    developed a construction schedule and staging plan for the  
    Undergrounding Work, which is included in the RFP Contract Documents.  
    During construction, the City and Sound Transit shall coordinate  
    construction schedules and work sequences to expedite Undergrounding  
    Work progress and minimize delays.  Sound Transit shall provide  
    scheduling coordination with the Contractor and private utilities with  
    the cooperation and support of the City.  Any changes to the schedule  
    for Undergrounding Work shall require communication, review, and  
    concurrence between Sound Transit and the City.  
  
    B.  Construction Responsibility of Sound Transit (Sound Transit Work)  
  
    1. Sound Transit shall be responsible for the construction of the  
    civil infrastructure for the Undergrounding Work, including trenches,  
    conduit, structures, street light poles and foundations, and lateral  
    service ducts.  All Sound Transit Work shall be constructed to Seattle  
    City Light's 2003 Material Standards, Construction Guidelines, and  
    Stock Catalog specified in the RFP Contract Documents, or as shown in  
    the Contract Documents if variances from RFP Contract Documents are  
    implemented with the City's concurrence, and subject to the City's  
    inspection and satisfaction.  
  
    2. Sound Transit shall be responsible for obtaining all permits  
    necessary for construction of the civil infrastructure.  
  
    3. Sound Transit shall be responsible for obtaining all the necessary  
    property rights of access required to support Sound Transit's  
    construction program, including but not limited to right of entry or  
    easement agreements with private property owners and tenants for the  
    purpose of completing the Undergrounding Work.  
  
    4. Sound Transit shall be responsible for coordinating construction of  
    Privately-owned Utilities, which shall include the scheduling and  
    facilitation of regular coordination meetings with the Contractor, the  
    City, and Privately-owned Utilities.  Sound Transit shall work with  
    the Contractor, the City, and Privately-owned Utilities to update the  
    schedule and sequence for construction of the Undergrounding Work.  
  
    C. Construction Responsibility of the City (City Work)  
  
    1. The City shall be responsible for removing City-owned Utilities,  
    furnishing and installing electrical wiring, transformers, meters, and  
    switches associated with undergrounding of City-owned Utilities, and  
    making the necessary rearrangements, modifications, and additions to  
    City-owned Utilities that will remain overhead to accommodate  
    undergrounding of City-owned Utilities.  
  
    2. The City shall provide the necessary work force and resources  
    required to support Sound Transit's construction schedule, as set  
    forth in the RFP Contract Documents.  The City shall be responsible  
    for obtaining all street use permits for the purpose of installing  
    electric wire in the right of way.  The City shall be responsible for  
    any installation of City-owned Utilities on private property through  
    existing City ordinance or Seattle City Light service agreements.  The  
    City shall coordinate its work with other facility owners and  
    contractors performing undergrounding of utilities that may connect,  
    complement or interfere with the City's work or facilities.  
    Coordination with parties other than the Parties to this Agreement  
    shall be through Sound Transit.  The City shall attend coordination  
    meetings as requested to facilitate coordination and help maintain the  
    project schedule by adjusting its work force and construction sequence  
    to mitigate project delays.  
  
    V.  COST RESPONSIBILITY  
  
    A. Undergrounding Cost  
  
    As described in Section III, Sound Transit has prepared a Cost  
    Estimate for Sound Transit Work, and the City has prepared a Cost  
    Estimate for City Work.  Together, these cost estimates constitute the  
    Cost Estimate for Undergrounding Work summarized in Exhibit A.  Within  
    the Cost Estimate for City Work and the Cost Estimate for Sound  
    Transit Work, the Parties agreed to an allocation of the estimated  
    costs for City Work and Sound Transit Work for relocating City-owned  
    Utilities into two categories: 1) Commercial Areas; and 2) Non-  
    commercial Areas.  The allocation of costs for Commercial Areas is  
    included in Exhibit A under the column labeled City Cost, and the  
    allocation of costs for Non-commercial Areas is included in Exhibit A  
    under the column labeled Sound Transit Cost.  This allocation of costs  
    is the primary basis for determining the City Cost and Sound Transit  
    Cost.  Other factors used for determining the City Cost and Sound  
    Transit Cost are described in greater detail in Sections V.B and V.C.  
    Any changes subsequent to the 95% Designs and RFP Contract Documents  
    that are not reflected in the Undergrounding Cost are subject to  
    negotiation by the Parties, and the cost (or cost reduction) for such  
    changes shall be estimated and allocated between the Parties  
    consistent with the principles used in developing the cost estimates  
    and allocation of costs in Exhibit A.  
  
    B. City Cost  
  
      The City shall have cost responsibility for the City Cost, which  
    includes:  
  
    * The estimated cost for Undergrounding Work for City-owned Utilities  
    in Commercial Areas, including design, civil and ductbank  
    construction, electrical wire and equipment, and installation, but  
    excluding electrical service connections;  
  
    * The estimated cost for street light poles and foundations in  
    Commercial Areas; and  
  
    * The estimated cost for spare conduit/appurtenances for future use by  
    Seattle City Light throughout the Undergrounding Area, in both  
    Commercial Areas and Non-commercial Areas, and for spare  
    conduit/appurtenances for future use by other parties to the extent  
    agreed upon by Sound Transit and the City as reflected in Exhibit A.  
  
    The City Cost is $14,999,000 (in 2002 dollars).  
  
    C.   Sound Transit Cost  
  
    Sound Transit shall have cost responsibility for the Sound Transit  
    Cost, which includes:  
  
    * The estimated cost for Undergrounding Work for City-owned Utilities  
    in Non-commercial Areas, including design, civil and ductbank  
    construction, electrical wire and equipment, and installation;  
  
    * The estimated cost of street light poles and foundations in Non-  
    commercial Areas;  
  
    * The estimated cost for electrical service connections in both  
    Commercial Areas and Non-commercial Areas; and  
  
    * The estimated cost for undergrounding project design, civil and  
    ductbank construction, wire and equipment, and installation in  
    undergrounding Privately-owned Utilities in Commercial Areas and Non-  
    commercial Areas.  Sound Transit may recover a portion of these costs  
    from participating private utilities.  
  
    The Sound Transit Cost is $14,904,000 (in 2002 dollars), including  
    amounts reimbursed by participating private utilities.  
  
    D.  Limitations on Cost Responsibility  
  
    1. The City's share of the Cost Estimate for Sound Transit Work that  
    is part of the City Cost shall be fixed at $11,158,000 (2002 dollars)  
    as shown in Exhibit A, except as provided for in this section.  The  
    City shall have no cost responsibility for any cost overruns for Sound  
    Transit Work, except for any change in the Undergrounding Work  
    schedule or scope by change order issued at the request of the City  
    for the City's benefit.  
  
    2. Sound Transit's share of the Cost Estimate for City Work that is  
    part of the Sound Transit Cost shall be fixed at $3,244,000 (2002  
    dollars) as shown in Exhibit A, except as provided for in this  
    section.  Sound Transit shall have no cost responsibility for any cost  
    overruns for City Work, except for any change in the Undergrounding  
    Work schedule or scope by change order issued at the request of Sound  
    Transit for Sound Transit's benefit, and except that Sound Transit  
    shall bear the cost responsibility for electrical service connections  
    throughout the project corridor.  
  
    3. Any adjustments to the Undergrounding Work schedule or scope  
    subsequent to the RFP Contract Documents will be negotiated by the  
    Parties consistent with the provisions of Section V.  If the City  
    causes a change in the Undergrounding Work schedule or scope that  
    affects the Cost Estimate for Sound Transit Work, then the City shall  
    bear the cost responsibility of such change.  If Sound Transit causes  
    a change in the Undergrounding Work schedule or scope that affects the  
    Cost Estimate for City Work, then Sound Transit shall bear the cost  
    responsibility of such change.  Changes in the Undergrounding Work  
    schedule or scope shall be documented by written change order, in  
    accordance with the general provisions of Sound Transit's construction  
    contract.  
  
    E. Condition Precedent to City Cost Responsibility  
  
    The City shall not be obligated to make any payments to Sound Transit  
    for Undergrounding Work until Sound Transit has executed a Full  
    Funding Grant Agreement ("FFGA") with the Federal Transit  
    Administration in the amount of $500 million or in an amount that  
    Sound Transit finds sufficient to implement the Central Link Light  
    Rail Project on substantially the same schedule and scope as is  
    reflected in Resolution 2001-16, approved by the Sound Transit Board  
    on November 29, 2001.  
  
    F. Construction Outside City Limits  
  
    Sound Transit shall pay for all costs of relocating City-owned  
    Utilities outside of the City of Seattle necessitated by light rail  
    construction unless otherwise agreed to by the City of Seattle.  
  
    VI. PAYMENTS  
  
    A. Payments by Sound Transit  
  
    Sound Transit shall pay the City for City Work on a monthly basis  
    after City Work commences.  Procedures for City reporting and Sound  
    Transit payment for these expenses shall be as described in the Sound  
    Transit/City of Seattle Construction Services Agreement.  The City  
    shall reimburse Sound Transit for the City's share of payments by  
    Sound Transit for the City Work in accordance with Section VI.C below.  
  
    B. Reimbursements by the City for Sound Transit Work  
  
    The City shall reimburse Sound Transit for the City's share of the  
    Cost Estimate for Sound Transit Work that is part of the City Cost as  
    provided in Section V and shown on Exhibit A.  The City shall make  
    payments on a quarterly basis beginning the first quarter in 2005.  
    The City shall structure substantially equal payments, so that Sound  
    Transit is fully reimbursed by December 2007. For City reimbursements  
    for Sound Transit Work, the Cost Estimate for Sound Transit Work shall  
    be adjusted annually from 2002 dollars to the mid-point of  
    construction, which for purposes of this Agreement is established as  
    July 2005, applying the CPI-U (Seattle, Tacoma, Bremerton, BLS). This  
    inflation adjustment shall be made by Sound Transit when construction  
    commences, and the adjustment shall be reported to the City of  
    Seattle. The City shall pay interest of 3.9% annually, compounded  
    quarterly, on the adjusted amounts owing to Sound Transit, which  
    interest shall accrue from the date of payment by Sound Transit and  
    shall be calculated at the month end on outstanding reimbursement  
    amounts owed to Sound Transit.  
  
      C.  Reimbursements by the City for City Work  
  
    The City shall also reimburse Sound Transit on a quarterly basis  
    beginning the first quarter in 2005 for the City's share of payments  
    by Sound Transit for City Work that Sound Transit has previously paid  
    the City under Section VI.A above.  The Cost Estimate for City Work  
    shall be adjusted annually from 2002 dollars to the mid-point of  
    construction, which for purposes of this Agreement is established as  
    July 2005, applying the CPI-U (Seattle, Tacoma Bremerton, BLS). This  
    inflation adjustment shall be performed by Sound Transit when  
    construction commences and reported to the City of Seattle.  The  
    City's share of Sound Transit's payments for City Work that Sound  
    Transit has previously paid shall be calculated by deducting the Sound  
    Transit Cost for City Work from the total amount of payments made by  
    Sound Transit under Section VIA. The City shall structure  
    substantially equal payments so that Sound Transit is fully reimbursed  
    by December 2007.   For City reimbursements for City Work previously  
    paid by Sound Transit to the City under Section VI.A, the City shall  
    pay interest of 3.9% annually, compounded quarterly, on the adjusted  
    amounts owing to Sound Transit, which interest shall accrue from the  
    date of payment by Sound Transit and shall be calculated at the month  
    end on outstanding reimbursement amounts owed to Sound Transit.  
  
      D. Payments and Supporting Reports  
  
    Sound Transit and the City shall collaborate to develop a template for  
    monthly reports on the Undergrounding Work and Undergrounding Cost.  
    As part of these monthly reports, Sound Transit will provide the City  
    with documentation of Sound Transit's expenses and the Contractors'  
    expenses in an agreed upon template that (1) states that Sound Transit  
    has reviewed and approved the work; (2) verifies that the work is  
    eligible for reimbursement by the City; and (3) includes actual costs  
    and backup information as determined by the City's standard  
    reimbursement policies.  The City shall provide Sound Transit with  
    documentation of its requests for payment to meet Sound Transit's  
    project control policies and applicable Federal Transit Administration  
    requirements.  The City reports shall also provide information on  
    expenses incurred by the City for City Work sufficient to provide the  
    basis for the calculation of reimbursements by the City for City Work  
    as described in Section VIC.  
  
    VII.  PROJECT ADMINISTRATION  
  
    A.  Designated Representatives  
  
    To provide for consistent and effective communication, the designated  
    formal points of contact and coordination for this Agreement are as  
    follows:  
  
    Sound Transit  
    Tony Raben  
    Sound Transit Line Segment Manager  
    401 S. Jackson Street  
    Seattle, WA 98104  
    Phone: (206) 689-3326  
  
    City of Seattle  
    Jonathan Layzer  
    Sound Transit Program Manager  
    Seattle Department of Transportation  
    700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3900  
    Seattle, WA 98104  
    Phone (206) 684-8084  
  
    A Party may change the Designated Representative or address to which  
    such communications are to be directed by giving written notice to the  
    other Party in the manner provided in this Agreement.  
  
    B.  Contract Management  
  
    Each of the Parties shall be solely responsible for the execution,  
    administration, and fulfillment of any third party contracts executed  
    by the Party except as provided in this Agreement.  In no event shall  
    any such third party contract be construed as obligating the other  
    Party.  All third party contracts shall comply with all applicable  
    public works and procurement laws and regulations.  
  
    C.  Responsibility for Quality of Work  
  
    Each Party shall be responsible for the quality, technical accuracy,  
    and the coordination of all services furnished under this Agreement.  
    Sound Transit shall make available, upon request, to the City and its  
    consultants, without cost, copies of reference documents related to  
    the Project that are readily available and on file at Sound Transit.  
    Except as specifically provided in this Agreement, these documents are  
    available solely as additional information to the City or its  
  
    consultants and do not relieve the City or its consultants of their  
    respective duties and obligations under this Agreement, nor constitute  
    a representation or warranty by Sound Transit of any kind.  
  
    D.  Termination of Agreement  
  
    Termination of this Agreement by either Party shall be as provided in  
    the Sound Transit/City of Seattle Construction Services Agreement.  
  
    VIII.  DISPUTE RESOLUTION  
  
    Sound Transit and the City will work collaboratively to resolve  
    disagreements arising from activities performed under this Agreement.  
    The Parties shall follow the Dispute Resolution Procedures of the  
    Sound Transit/City of Seattle Construction Services Agreement to  
    resolve disputes arising under this Agreement.  
  
    IX.  LEGAL RELATIONS  
  
    A.  Indemnity  
  
    To the extent permitted by law, each Party to this Agreement shall  
    protect, defend, indemnify, and save harmless the other Party, and its  
    officers, officials, employees, and agents, while acting within the  
    scope of their employment, from any and all costs, claims, demands,  
    judgments, damages, or liability of any kind including injuries to  
    persons or damages to property, which arise out of, or in any way  
    result from, or are connected to, or are due to, any negligent acts or  
    omissions of the indemnifying Party.  No Party shall be required to  
    indemnify, defend, or save harmless the other Party if the claim,  
    suit, or action for injuries, death, or damages is caused by the sole  
    negligence of the Party seeking indemnification.  Where such claims,  
    suits, or actions result from concurrent negligence of the Parties,  
    the indemnity provisions provided herein shall be valid and  
    enforceable only to the extent of the Party's own negligence.  Each  
    Party agrees that its obligations under this indemnification section  
    extend to any claim, demand, and/or cause of action brought by, or on  
    behalf of, any of its employees or agents.  For this purpose, each  
    Party, by mutual negotiation, hereby waives, with respect to the other  
    Party only, any immunity that would otherwise be available against  
    such claims under the industrial insurance provisions of Title 51 RCW.  
    In the event of any claims, demands, actions and lawsuits, the  
    indemnifying Party upon prompt notice from the other Party shall  
    assume all costs of defense thereof, including legal fees incurred by  
    the other Party, and of all resulting judgments that may be obtained  
    against the other Party.   In the event that any Party incurs attorney  
    fees, costs or other legal expenses to enforce the provisions of this  
    section, all such fees, costs and expenses shall be recoverable by the  
    prevailing Party. This indemnification shall survive the expiration or  
    earlier termination of this Agreement.  
  
    B.  Governing Law and Venue  
  
    This Agreement will be governed by, and construed and enforced in  
    accordance with, the laws of the State of Washington.  In the event  
    that any Party deems it necessary to institute legal action or  
    proceedings to enforce any right or obligation under this Agreement,  
    the Parties hereto agree that any such action or proceedings shall be  
    brought in King County Superior Court in Seattle, King County,  
    Washington.  
  
    C.  Insurance and Indemnity Provisions of Construction Contracts  
  
    The Parties shall extend the insurance and indemnification provisions  
    of the construction contracts related to this Agreement to include  
    each other.  The City shall include in any third party contracts  
    provisions to include Sound Transit as an "Additional Named Insured"  
    in any insurance policies that the City's third party contractors are  
    required to provide and include Sound Transit as an indemnitee in  
    language relating to legal relations with third parties.  Sound  
    Transit shall include in any third party contract provisions to  
    include the City as an "Additional Named Insured" in any insurance  
    policies that Sound Transit's third party contractors are required to  
    provide and include the City as an indemnitee in language relating to  
    legal relations with third parties.  
  
    D. Allocation of Risk by Sound Transit and the City  
  
      For City Work, replacement or repair of damage to the City Work is  
    the responsibility of the City.  For Sound Transit Work, replacement  
    or repair of damage to the Sound Transit Work is the responsibility of  
    Sound Transit.  Except to the extent covered by insurance, each Party  
    shall bear its respective responsibility for the constructed work  
    performed under Section IV until the work is accepted as provided in  
    the Sound Transit/City of Seattle Construction Services Agreement.  
  
    E.  No Agency or Employee Relationship  
  
    No joint venture or partnership is formed as a result of this  
    Agreement.  No employees, agents or subcontractors of one Party shall  
    be deemed, or represent themselves to be, employees of the other  
    Party.  
  
    1.  In performing work and services pursuant to this Agreement, the  
    City, its employees, consultants, agents, and representatives shall be  
    acting as agents of the City and shall not be deemed or construed to  
    be employees or agents of Sound Transit in any manner whatsoever.  The  
    City shall not hold itself out as, nor claim to be, an officer or  
    employee of Sound Transit and will not make any claim, demand, or  
    application to or for any right or privilege applicable to an officer  
    or employee of Sound Transit.  The City shall be solely responsible  
    for any claims for wages or compensation by the City's employees,  
    consultants, agents, and representatives, including sub-consultants,  
    or any agency, and shall defend, indemnify and hold Sound Transit  
    harmless therefrom.  
  
    2.  In performing work and services pursuant to this Agreement, Sound  
    Transit, its employees, consultants, agents, and representatives shall  
    be acting as agents of Sound Transit and shall not be deemed or  
    construed to be employees or agents of the City in any manner  
    whatsoever.  Sound Transit shall not hold itself out as, nor claim to  
    be, an officer or employee of the City and will not make any claim,  
    demand, or application to or for any right or privilege applicable to  
    an officer or employee of the City.  Sound Transit shall be solely  
    responsible for any claims for wages or compensation by Sound  
    Transit's employees, consultants, agents, and representatives,  
    including sub-consultants, or any agency, and shall defend, indemnify  
    and hold the City harmless therefrom.  
  
    F.  Notices  
  
    All notices or requests required or permitted under this Agreement  
    shall be in writing, shall be personally delivered, or sent by  
    certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or by  
    facsimile transmission and shall be deemed to have been duly given if  
    in writing and delivered either personally, by facsimile transmission,  
    or by certified mail, to the designated representative of the other  
    Party as named in this Agreement.  
  
    G.  Interpretation  
  
    This written Agreement is the result of mutual negotiations between  
    the Parties and any ambiguity herein is not to be construed against  
    any Party but shall be construed according to the fair intent of the  
    language and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of  
    Washington.  
  
    H.  Availability of Records  
  
      All project records in support of all costs incurred and actual  
    expenditures kept by the Parties shall be maintained in accordance  
    with procedures prescribed by the Washington State Auditor's Office  
    and the applicable Federal funding agencies. The records shall be open  
    to inspection by the Parties and the Federal government during normal  
    business hours, and shall be retained and made available for such  
    inspection for a period of not less than six years from the final  
    payment of any federal funds to Sound Transit. Copies of said records  
    shall be furnished to the Parties and/or the Federal government upon  
    request.  This requirement shall be included in all subcontracts  
    related to the work entered into by the Parties to fulfill the terms  
    of this Agreement.  
  
    I.  Audit  
  
    If an audit is requested by Sound Transit or required by any  
    applicable federal agency requirements, the City agrees to cooperate  
    fully with Sound Transit's auditor, with any independent auditor  
    chosen and retained by Sound Transit for auditing expenditures under  
    this Agreement, or with any auditor required by the federal funding  
    agency, if applicable.  At the time of a federal audit, if required,  
    the City will provide documentation of all costs incurred under this  
    Agreement.  
  
    J.  Compliance with Existing Laws  
  
    Each Party shall comply, and to the best of its ability shall ensure  
    that its employees, agents, consultants, contractors and  
    representatives comply, with all federal, state, and local laws,  
    regulations, and ordinances applicable to the work and services to be  
    performed.  The work performed by Sound Transit and the City under  
    this Agreement shall comply with all applicable public works and  
    procurement laws and regulations.  
  
    K.  Waiver of Rights  
  
    In the exercise of its rights and obligations under this Agreement,  
    except as allowed by the provisions of this Agreement, neither Party  
    shall provide, without the consent of the other Party, any contractor  
    with a release that waives or purports to waive any rights such other  
    Party may have to seek relief or redress against such contractor  
    either pursuant to any cause of action that such other Party may have  
    or for violation of any law.  
  
    L.  No Waiver  
  
    No act or failure to act on the part of either Party with respect to  
    the exercise or enforcement of any provision of this Agreement shall  
    be deemed to be a waiver on the part of either Party of any provision  
    of this Agreement.  No waiver of one provision by either Party shall  
    act as a waiver of any other provision or as a subsequent waiver of  
    the same provision.  No waiver shall be effective against either Party  
    except an express waiver in writing.  
  
    M.  Binding on Successors  
  
    All of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Agreement will be  
    binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties hereto and their  
    respective successors, permitted assigns and legal representatives.  
  
    N.  No Third Party Rights  
  
    Nothing in this Agreement, whether express or implied, is intended to  
    (1) confer any rights or remedies under or by reason of this Agreement  
    on any persons other than the Parties to it and their respective  
    successors and permitted assigns; (2) relieve or discharge the  
    obligation or liability of any third party to a Party to this  
    Agreement; nor (3) give any third parties any right of subrogation or  
    action over or against the other Party to this Agreement.  
  
    O. Amendment/Modification  
  
    The Parties reserve the right to amend this Agreement.  No addition or  
    modification to this Agreement shall be binding upon the Parties  
    unless reduced to writing, legally authorized by Seattle Ordinance and  
    Sound Transit Motion if and as necessary, and executed by an  
    authorized representative of the Parties.  
  
    P.  Assignment  
  
    Neither Party shall assign any interest, obligation, or benefit in  
    this Agreement or transfer any interest in the same, whether by  
    assignment or novation, without prior written consent by the other  
    Party.  
  
    Q.  Severability  
  
    If any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement are determined to  
    be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the  
    remaining terms and conditions unaffected thereby shall remain in full  
    force and effect.  The Parties agree to negotiate in good faith to  
    reform the Agreement to replace any invalid or unenforceable term  
    and/or condition with a valid and enforceable term and/or condition  
    that comes as close as possible to the intention of the stricken term  
    and/or condition.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this Agreement as  
    of the day and year first above written.  
  
    CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY         CITY OF SEATTLE  
    _____________________________________________          ________________  
    By:                                                    By:  
    Title: Chief Executive Officer                         Title: Mayor  
    Date:  _____________________________________           Date:  _________  
  
    List of Exhibits  
    Exhibit A - Cost Estimate for Undergrounding Work  
                Sheet 1:    Undergrounding Cost Summary Sheet  
                Sheet 2:    Undergrounding Cost Detail Sheet  
  
    Exhibit 1 Sheet 1  
  
    Memorandum of Agreement Between Sound Transit and the City of Seattle for Undergrounding of Overhead Utilities along Martin Luther King, Jr. Way South  
  
    Undergrounding Cost Summary  
  
                                                                                                              Allocations  
  
    All figures are $ in millions (2002 $)            Total                                 Sound Transit Cost           City Cost  
  
                                                  $ in millions  
  
    Cost Estimate for City Work                      2002 $  
  
    Electrical service connections                                $0.301                    $0.301                        $0.000  
    All other City Work                                           $6.783                    $2.942                        $3.841  
    Subtotal, City Work                                           $7.085                    $3.244                        $3.841  
  
    Cost Estimate for Sound Transit Work  
  
    Construction Civil & Ductbank                                $13.540                    $7.387                        $6.152  
    General Conditions and Allowances                             $7.404                    $3.250                        $4.154  
    Design, Construction Management, and Other Costs              $1.875                    $1.023                        $0.852  
    Subtotal, Sound Transit Work                                 $22.819                   $11.661                       $11.158  
  
    Undergrounding Cost (total cost for Undergrounding           $29.903                                                 $14.904           $14.999  
    Work)  
  
    10/4/03  
    t  
  
    Exhibit A - Project Zoning Overview  
  
    Exhibit B - Undergrounding of Overhead Utilities, 95% Estimate  
  
    Exhibit A  
  
    Project Zoning Overview  
  
    Attached are six zoning maps showing segments of Martin Luther King,  
    Jr. Way South.  
  
    These maps are colored to show the Residential, Commercial,  
    Residential/Commercial, and Neighborhood Commercial zones.  In  
    general, this identifies the extent of Sound Transit's C735  
    construction contract and the light rail alignment along Martin  
    Luther King, Jr. Way South.  
  
    Attachment 1  
  
    Sound Transit/City of Seattle  
  
    MLK Undergrounding Agreement  1  8-27-03 Attachment 1  
  
    Undergrounding of Overhead Utilities  
  
    95% Estimate - C735  
  
    Scope limits are S. McClellan St. to Beacon Ave S. on MLK Way  
  
    Summary  
  
    Allocations  
  
    Subtotal  
  
    Total  
  
    ST Total  
  
    COS Total  
  
    $ in millions  
  
    $ in millions  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    SCL - Seattle City Light Electrical Wire & Equipment  
  
    2002 $  
  
    2002 $  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Construction Electrical  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Direct Work:  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Electrical Plant (wire & equipment in ST provided ductbanks & vaults)  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Demo & remove wire  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Elect. Service connections resid. & comm. (wire & equip.)  
  
    $0.301  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Subtotal SCL Electrical Construction  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.301  
  
    $0.000  
  
    General Conditions & Allowances:  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Temporary Traffic Control for dry utilities  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Community Outreach (by contractor)  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Subtotal SCL GC's  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Construction contingency (included above)  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Subtotal SCL Forces  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.301  
  
    $0.000  
  
    SCL Design & CM for SCL Civil  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Total SCL forces costs  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $2.942  
  
    $3.841  
  
    Subtotal SCL Design and CM  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $2.942  
  
    $3.841  
  
    Total SCL Electrical  
  
    $7.08  
  
    $3.244  
  
    $3.841  
  
    $0.000  
  
    ST - Sound Transit Civil & Ductbank  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Construction Civil & Ductbank  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Direct Work:  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Demo & remove poles  
  
    $0.11  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.049  
  
    $0.064  
  
    New steel street light poles & foundations  
  
    $1.27  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.543  
  
    $0.725  
  
    Ductbank & vaults for SCL electrical, & lighting  
  
    $6.48  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $2.776  
  
    $3.700  
  
    Ductbank & vaults for SCL communication  
  
    $0.82  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.818  
  
    Ductbank & vaults for Qwest communications  
  
    $0.94  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.942  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Ductbank & vaults for AT&T communications  
  
    $1.36  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $1.356  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Ductbank & vaults for DOIT communications  
  
    $0.02  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.022  
  
    Ductbank & vaults for Future communications  
  
    $0.16  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.163  
  
    Permit Allowance for Private connections  
  
    $0.03  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.035  
  
    $0.000  
  
    SCL Service connections (trench & conduit to residential & comm.  
    buildings)  
  
    $0.90  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.895  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Subtotal ST  
  
    $12.09  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $6.596  
  
    $5.493  
  
    Construction contingency @ 12%  
  
    $1.45  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.792  
  
    $0.659  
  
    Subtotal ST Construction w/out GC's  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $13.54  
  
    $7.387  
  
    $6.152  
  
    General Conditions & Allowances:  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Temporary restoration of street, driveways & sidewalks  
  
    $2.34  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $1.027  
  
    $1.312  
  
    Temporary Traffic Control for dry utilities(elect & comm.  
    ductbank/elect.)  
  
    $1.50  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.658  
  
    $0.841  
  
    Utility conflict relocations (modify the pre-100% design)  
  
    $0.18  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.078  
  
    $0.099  
  
    Testing & Inspection for civil & ductbank  
  
    $0.19  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.085  
  
    $0.108  
  
    Hazmat  
  
    $0.25  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.112  
  
    $0.143  
  
    PLA Wage Escalation  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Unidentified Utility Conflicts  
  
    $0.24  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.105  
  
    $0.135  
  
    Permits (Allowance)  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Community Outreach (by contractor)  
  
    $0.61  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.270  
  
    $0.345  
  
    Temp. Erosion Control  
  
    $0.14  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.061  
  
    $0.078  
  
    Added potholing  
  
    $0.04  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.019  
  
    $0.024  
  
    Added Mobilization  
  
    $0.97  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.424  
  
    $0.542  
  
    Subcontractor management costs  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Temporary street construction for wet utility installation phasing  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Trends  
  
    $0.14  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.063  
  
    $0.081  
  
    Subtotal ST GC's  
  
    $6.61  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $2.902  
  
    $3.709  
  
    Construction contingency @ 12%  
  
    $0.79  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.348  
  
    $0.445  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $7.40  
  
    $3.250  
  
    $4.154  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    Subtotal ST Civil Construction  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $18.70  
  
    $9.498  
  
    $9.202  
  
    Construction contingency @ 12%  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $2.24  
  
    $1.140  
  
    $1.104  
  
    Total ST Civil Construction  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $20.94  
  
    $10.638  
  
    $10.306  
  
    ST - Sound Transit Project Costs  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.000  
  
    ST CM (3% of ST Construction)  
  
    $0.63  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.343  
  
    $0.285  
  
    ST Design  
  
    $1.25  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $0.680  
  
    $0.567  
  
    Subtotal ST CM, Design and other impacts  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $1.88  
  
    $1.023  
  
    $0.852  
  
    Total SCL Electrical  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $7.08  
  
    $3.244  
  
    $3.841  
  
    Total ST Civil Construction  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $20.94  
  
    $10.638  
  
    $10.306  
  
    Total Project Costs  
  
    $0.00  
  
    $29.90  
  
    $14.904  
  
    $14.999  
  
    Funding Sources  
  
    ST  
  
    $12.898  
  
    Private Reimbursement  
  
    $2.019  
  
    COS  
  
    $14.999  
  
    Total Funding  
  
    $29.916  
  
    Project Costs  
  
    $29.903  
  
    Balance  
  
    $0.012  
  
    $1.247  
