* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114605**   
**Ordinance Number: 121202**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to funds for a pedestrian safety campaign; accepting funds; increasing an expenditure allowance in the 2003 budget of Seattle Transportation by making a reimbursable appropriation; and ratifying and confirming prior acts; all by three-fourths vote of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 23, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 2, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 1, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
**Note:** Commonly known as Pedestrian Summer  
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 16, 2003   
**Committee:** Transportatoin   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN   
  
**Index Terms:** PEDESTRIANS, SAFETY, TRAFFIC-SAFETY, GRANTS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to funds for a pedestrian safety campaign;  
    accepting funds; increasing an expenditure allowance in the 2003  
    budget of Seattle Transportation by making a reimbursable  
    appropriation; and ratifying and confirming prior acts; all by three-  
    fourths vote of the City Council.  
  
    WHEREAS, pedestrian safety is a priority for the City of Seattle as  
    stated in the Transportation Strategic Plan; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City has initiated a pedestrian safety campaign called  
    "Pedestrian Summer" to educate motorists and walkers about pedestrian  
    safety and to promote walking; and  
  
    WHEREAS, this pedestrian safety campaign requires expenditures which  
    were not included in the 2003 budget; and  
  
    WHEREAS, funds from private and public organizations were pledged to  
    pay for those expenditures; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the funds will pay for items such as designing and printing  
    materials, web site maintenance and project coordination that are in  
    support of this program.  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Mayor or his designee is hereby authorized to accept  
    private and public funding from sources identified in Exhibit A,  
    collectively, in the sum of Twelve Thousand Dollars ($12,000), to  
    support the activities of a pedestrian safety campaign to be  
    coordinated by Seattle Transportation.  The funds, when received, are  
    hereby accepted and shall be deposited to the credit of the  
    Transportation Operating Fund to reimburse for the appropriation made  
    in Section 2.  
  
    Section 2.  Contingent upon receipt by the City of $12,000 for the  
    purpose stated in Section 1, the appropriation for the following in  
    the 2003 budget is increased as follows:  
  
    Fund                     Department               Budget Control Level  Amount  
    10310 - Transportation   Seattle Transportation   Department           $12,000  
            Operating Fund                            Management  
  
    Section 3.  Unspent funds appropriated in Section 2 shall carry  
    forward to subsequent fiscal years until they are exhausted or  
    expressly abandoned by ordinance.  
  
    Section 4.   Any acts pursuant to the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance, are hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 5.  In accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, by reason of the  
    facts above stated, the foregoing appropriation is made to meet actual  
    necessary expenditures of the City for which appropriations have been  
    made due to causes which could not reasonably have been foreseen at  
    the time of the making of the 2003 budget.  
  
    Section 6.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal  
    Code Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of all the members of the City  
    Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed by me in open  
    session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________,  
    2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    Exhibit A:  FUNDING SOURCES FOR PEDESTRIAN SUMMER CAMPAIGN -- 2003  
    June 13, 2003  
    version #8  
  
    FUNDING SOURCES FOR PEDESTRIAN SUMMER CAMPAIGN -- 2003  
  
    As of June 6, 2003, the following organizations have pledged to  
    contribute the following amounts in support of the pedestrian summer  
    campaign.   These are the known funding sources as of June 6, 2003  
  
    Funding Entity    Amount  
    PEMCO Financial Services                 $5,000  
    State Farm Insurance                     $2,000  
    Safeco Corporation                       $1,000  
    Vulcan Inc.                              $1,000  
    Puget Sound Energy                       $1,000  
    Turner Construction Co.                  $1,000  
    Flexcar                                    $500  
    Washington Traffic Safety Commission       $500  
