* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114643**   
**Ordinance Number: 121249**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to City employment, to be known as the Second Quarter 2003 Salary Ordinance, establishing new titles and/or salaries in various departments; designating a position as exempt from Civil Service status in the office of the Public Safety Civil Service Commission; by a 2/3 vote of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 11, 2003   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 19, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 19, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
**Note:** Second Quarter 2003 Salary Ordinance  
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 28, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** CITY-EMPLOYEES, WAGES-AND-SALARIES  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114643.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114643  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to City employment, to be known as the Second  
    Quarter 2003 Salary Ordinance, establishing new titles and/or salaries  
    in various departments; designating a position as exempt from Civil  
    Service status in the office of the Public Safety Civil Service  
    Commission; by a 2/3 vote of the City Council.  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  ESTABLISHING NEW TITLES AND/OR SALARIES. As recommended by  
    the Personnel Director, the following titles and rates are  
    established, effective as of the date shown:  
  
    Department:                        DEA  
    New Title:                         Claims Adjuster I-DEA  
    Salary Range:                      $22.72- 26.51   (Range 31.5A)  
    Report:                            03-6651  
    Effective:                         Jan. 1, 2003  
  
    Department:                        DEA  
    New Title:                         Claims Adjuster II-DEA  
    Salary Range:                      $25.04- 29.14   (Range 34.0A)  
    Report:                            03-6652  
    Effective:                         Jan. 1, 2003  
  
    Department:                        Seattle Public Utilities  
    New Title:                         Utility Service Inspector Supervisor  
    Salary Range:                      $25.57- $29.73    (Range 34.5A)  
    Report:                            03-6715  
    Effective:                         Jan. 27, 2003  
  
    After a reasonable period of time for implementation of the above  
    titles and rates, the obsolete titles will be abolished.  
  
    Section 2.  DESIGNATING A POSITION AS EXEMPT FROM CIVIL SERVICE  
    STATUS. As recommended by the Personnel Director in the Classification  
    Determination specified, a position in the Public Safety Civil Service  
    Commission is designated as exempt from civil service as noted below:  
  
      1 position (#10001822) in the Public Safety Civil Service  
    Commission; Strategic Advisor 1, Exempt  (Report #03-6584).  
  
    Section 3.  The heads of respective departments affected by this  
    ordinance are hereby authorized to use unexpended and unencumbered  
    funds accumulating in their respective Budgets to pay the compensation  
    authorized herein.  
  
    Section 4.  The heads of respective departments are authorized to  
    fill such positions subject to civil service and personnel rules and laws.  
  
    Section 5.  Any act consistent with this authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 6.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by a two-thirds (2/3's) vote of the members of the City Council  
    the _____ day of _______________, 2003, and signed by me in open  
    session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of  
    _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    President ____________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this _____ day of_______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    06/24/03  
    Version #1a  
