* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114640**   
**Ordinance Number: 121241**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to Street and Sidewalk Use, amending Section 15.48.900; repealing Chapter 15.50; and adding a new Chapter 15.90 to Title 15 of the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 4, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 13, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 13, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 21, 2003   
**Committee:** Transportation   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN   
  
**Index Terms:** STREET-USE-PERMITS, CIVIL-LAW, CRIMINAL-LAW, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, CODE-ENFORCEMENT, STREETS, PERMITS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114640.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114640  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to Street and Sidewalk Use, amending Section  
    15.48.900; repealing Chapter 15.50; and adding a new Chapter 15.90 to  
    Title 15 of the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
    WHEREAS, the enforcement system for processing Street and Sidewalk Use  
    Code violations should recognize that the majority of citizens will  
    voluntarily comply with the code requirements once they are aware of a  
    violation; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the current enforcement system can be changed to be more  
    effective in dealing with the more difficult street and sidewalk use  
    cases, particularly those involving continuing offenders and adjacent  
    property owners who are unwilling to comply with the City's  
    requirements; and  
  
    WHEREAS, it is appropriate that the Street and Sidewalk Use Code  
    should discourage continuing violations by imposing cumulative  
    penalties; and  
  
    WHEREAS, enforcement against violators is necessary to protect the  
    public health, safety and welfare, and effective implementation of the  
    street and sidewalk use permit program requires consistent ongoing  
    enforcement against violators, even though most people will abide by  
    all the rules and regulations required by Title 15;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  SMC 15.48.900 is amended as follows:  
  
    A.  Each violation of Section 15.48.040 shall be a civil infraction as  
    contemplated by RCW Chapter 7.80 and deemed to be a Class 3 civil  
    infraction under RCW 7.80120(c), and shall subject the violator to a  
    maximum penalty and a default amount of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) plus  
    statutory assessments.  If the person is unable to pay the monetary  
    penalty, the court may order performance of a number of hours of  
    community service in lieu of a monetary penalty.  
  
    B.  Each violation of Section 15.48.100 5 shall be a civil  
    infraction as contemplated by RCW Chapter 7.80 and deemed to be a  
    Class 1 civil infraction under RCW 7.80.120(a), and shall subject the  
    violator to a maximum penalty and default amount of Two Hundred Fifty  
    Dollars ($250.00) plus statutory assessments.  The penalty for a civil  
    infraction is in addition to the civil liability of the person  
    responsible for the posting to the City for the cost of removal under  
    Sections 15.48.120 and 15.48.130.  
  
    C.  As contemplated by RCW 7.80.160, a person who fails to sign a  
    notice of civil infraction or who willfully violates his or her  
    written and signed promise to appear in court or his or her written  
    and signed promise to respond to a notice of civil infraction is  
    guilty of a misdemeanor regardless of the disposition of the notice of  
    civil infraction.  A person who willfully fails to pay a monetary  
    penalty or perform community service as ordered by a court may be  
    found in contempt of court as provided in chapter 7.21 RCW.  
  
    D.  An action for a civil infraction shall be initiated and process  
    in the manner contemplated by RCW Chapter 7.80 and the Infraction  
    Rules for Courts of Limited Jurisdiction.  For purposes of RCW  
    7.80.040, the "enforcement officer" authorized to enforce the  
    provisions of this title are: (1) as to park drives and boulevards,  
    the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, and as to other public  
    places, the Director of the Seattle Department of Transportation; (2)  
    authorized representatives or assistants of either of them; and (3) a  
    commissioned officer of  the Seattle Police Department and a person  
    issued a Special Police Officer Commission by the Chief of Police with  
    authority to enforce this title.  
  
    Section 2.  Chapter SMC 15.50 is repealed.  
  
    Section 3.  A new Chapter SMC 15.90 Enforcement is adopted to read as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 15.90.002  Violations.  
  
    A. It is a violation of Title 15 for any person to initiate or  
    maintain or cause to be initiated or maintained the use of any public  
    place within The City of Seattle without first obtaining the permits  
    or authorizations required for the use by Title 15.  
  
    B. It is a violation of Title 15 for any person to use any public  
    place in any manner that is not permitted by the terms of any permit  
    or authorization issued pursuant to Title 15 or previous codes,  
    provided that the terms or conditions are explicitly stated on the  
    permit or the approved plans.  
  
    C. It is a violation of Title 15 to remove or deface any sign, notice,  
    complaint or order required by or posted in accordance with Title 15.  
  
    D. It is a violation of Title 15 to misrepresent any material fact in  
    any application, plans or other information submitted to obtain any  
    street or sidewalk use authorization.  
  
    E. It is a violation of Title 15 for anyone to fail to comply with the  
    requirements of Title 15.  
  
    SMC  15.90.004  Authority to enforce.  
  
    A. The Director of the Seattle Department of Transportation is  
    authorized to enforce Title 15.  The Director may call upon the  
    police, fire, health or other appropriate City departments to assist  
    in enforcement.  The Director is also authorized to enforce Section  
    23.55.004, Signs projecting over public rights-of-way.  
  
    B. Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Director or duly  
    authorized representative of the Director may, with the consent of the  
    owner or occupier of a building or premises, or pursuant to a lawfully  
    issued inspection warrant, enter at reasonable times any building or  
    premises subject to the consent or warrant to perform the duties  
    imposed by the Street and Sidewalk Use Code.  The Director or duly  
    authorized representative of the Director may enter any public place  
    at any time.  
  
    C. The Street and Sidewalk Use Code shall be enforced for the benefit  
    of the health, safety and welfare of the general public, and not for  
    the benefit of any particular person or class of persons.  
  
    D. It is the intent of this Street and Sidewalk Use Code to place the  
    obligation of complying with its requirements upon the adjacent  
    property owner, occupant or other person responsible for the use of  
    public places within the scope of this Code.  
  
    E. No provision of or term used in this Code is intended to impose any  
    duty upon the City or any of its officers or employees which would  
    subject them to damages in a civil action.  
  
    SMC 15.90.006  Investigation and notice of violation.  
  
    A. The Director is authorized to investigate any use of a public place  
    which the Director reasonably believes does not comply with the  
    standards and requirements of this Street and Sidewalk Use Code.  
  
    B. If after investigation the Director determines that the standards  
    or requirements have been violated, the Director may issue a notice of  
    violation to the adjacent property owner, occupant or other person  
    responsible for the violation. The notice of violation shall state  
    separately each standard or requirement violated, shall state what  
    corrective action, if any, is necessary to comply with the standards  
    or requirements; and shall set a reasonable time for compliance.  
  
    C. The notice shall be served upon the adjacent property owner,  
    occupant or other person responsible for the violation by personal  
    service in the manner set forth in RCW 4.28.080 for service of a  
    summons or sent by first class mail, addressed to the last known  
    address of such person(s).  Service shall be complete at the time of  
    personal service, or if mailed, three days following the date of  
    mailing.  If a notice of violation sent by first class mail is  
    returned as undeliverable, service may be made by posting the notice  
    of violation at a conspicuous place on the site.  
  
    D.  Nothing in this section shall be deemed to limit or preclude any  
    action or proceeding pursuant to Section 15.90.010 or Section  
    15.90.012, and nothing in this section shall be deemed to obligate or  
    require the Director to issue a notice of violation prior to the  
    imposition of civil or criminal penalties.  
  
    E. A notice or an Order may be amended at any time in order to:  
  
    1. Correct clerical and other errors, or  
  
    2. Cite additional authority for a stated violation.  
  
    F.  Violations of SMC 15.48.040 and 15.48.100 shall be cited in  
    accordance with SMC 15.48.900.  
  
    G.  Unless a request for review before the Director is made in  
    accordance with Section 15.90.014 the notice of violation shall become  
    the final order of the Director.  After the notice of violation  
    becomes the final order of the Director, a copy of the notice of  
    violation may be filed with the King County Department of Records and  
    Elections.  Any final order other than a stop-work order or emergency  
    order issued by the Director pursuant to this subtitle may be appealed  
    to the Hearing Examiner by an aggrieved person.  Appeals to the  
    Hearing Examiner shall be initiated by filing a written notice with  
    the applicable fee within fifteen (15) days of the date set for  
    compliance in the notice of violation or Order following a review by  
    the Director.  
  
    SMC 15.90.008  Time to comply.  
  
    When calculating a reasonable time for compliance, the Director shall  
    consider the following criteria:  
  
    1. The type and degree of violation cited in the notice;  
  
    2. The stated intent, if any, of an adjacent property owner, occupant  
    or other responsible party to take steps to comply;  
  
    3. The procedural requirements for obtaining a permit to carry out  
    corrective action;  
  
    4. The complexity of the corrective action; and  
  
    5. Any other circumstances beyond the control of the adjacent property  
    owner, occupant or other responsible party.  
  
    SMC 15.90.010  Stop Work Order.  
  
    Whenever a violation of this Code will materially impair the  
    Director's ability to secure compliance with this Code, when the  
    violation threatens the health or safety of the public, or when the  
    violation interferes with the public's use and enjoyment of the public  
    place the Director may issue a Stop Work Order specifying the  
    violation and prohibiting any work or other activity at the site by  
    posting the Stop Work Order in a conspicuous place at the site, if  
    posting is physically possible, or by serving the adjacent property  
    owner, occupant or other person responsible for the use.  A failure to  
    comply with a Stop Work Order shall constitute a violation of this  
    Street and Sidewalk Use Code.  
  
    SMC 15.90.012  Emergency Order.  
  
    Whenever any use or activity in violation of this Code threatens the  
    health and safety of any member of the public, the Director may issue  
    an Emergency Order directing that the use or activity be discontinued  
    and the condition causing the threat to the public health and safety  
    be corrected.  The Emergency Order shall specify the time for  
    compliance and shall be posted in a conspicuous place at the site, if  
    posting is physically possible, or served on the adjacent property  
    owner, occupant or other person responsible for the use.  A failure to  
    comply with an Emergency Order shall constitute a violation of this  
    Street and Sidewalk Use Code.  
  
    SMC 15.90.014   Review by the Director.  
  
    A. Any person aggrieved by a notice of violation issued by the  
    Director pursuant to Section 15.90.006 may obtain a review of the  
    notice by requesting such review in writing within ten (10) days of  
    the date of the notice. When the last day of the period so computed is  
    a Saturday, Sunday or federal or City holiday, the period shall run  
    until five (5:00) p.m. on the next business day.  The request shall be  
    in writing, and within thirty (30) days of the request for review the  
    aggrieved person shall submit any additional information to be  
    considered for the review.  Before the deadline for submission of  
    information, any person aggrieved by or interested in the notice of  
    violation (including any persons served the notice of violation and  
    the complainant) may submit any additional information in the form of  
    written material to the Director for consideration as part of the  
    review.  
  
    B. The review will be made by a representative of the Director who is  
    familiar with the case and the applicable ordinances. The Director's  
    representative will review all additional information received by the  
    deadline for submission of information. The reviewer may also request  
    clarification of information received and a site visit.  After review  
    of the additional information, the Director may:  
  
    1. Sustain the notice of violation;  
  
    2. Withdraw the notice of violation;  
  
    3. Continue the review to a date certain for receipt of additional  
    information; or  
  
    4. Modify the notice of violation, which may include an extension of  
    the compliance date.  
  
    C. The Director shall issue an Order of the Director containing the  
    decision and shall cause the same to be mailed by first class mail to  
    the person or persons named on the notice of violation.  The Director  
    may file the Order with the Department of Records and Elections of  
    King County.  Appeal of the Order shall be made in accordance with SMC  
    15.90.006(G).  
  
    SMC 15.90.016  Extension of Compliance Date.  
  
    The Director may grant an extension of time for compliance with any  
    notice or Order, whether pending or final, upon the Director's finding  
    that substantial progress toward compliance has been made and that the  
    public will not be adversely affected by the extension.  An extension  
    of time may be revoked by the Director if it is shown that the  
    conditions at the time the extension was granted have changed, the  
    Director determines that a party is not performing corrective actions  
    as agreed, or if the extension creates an adverse effect on the  
    public. The date of revocation shall then be considered the compliance  
    date.  
  
    15.90.018  Civil penalty.  
  
    A. In addition to any other sanction or remedial procedure which may  
    be available, any person violating or failing to comply with any of  
    the provisions of Title 15 and who is identified in an order of the  
    Director shall be subject to a cumulative penalty of up to Five-  
    hundred Dollars ($500) per day for each violation from the date set  
    for compliance until the person complies with the requirements of the  
    code.  
  
    B. The penalty imposed by this section shall be collected by civil  
    action brought in the name of the City. The Director shall notify the  
    City Attorney in writing of the name of any person subject to the  
    penalty, and the City Attorney shall, with the assistance of the  
    Director, take appropriate action to collect the penalty.  In any  
    civil action for a penalty, the City has the burden of proving by a  
    preponderance of the evidence that a violation exists or existed; the  
    issuance of the notice of violation or of an order following a review  
    by the Director is not itself evidence that a violation exists.  
  
    C. The violator may show as full or partial mitigation of liability:  
  
    1. That the violation giving rise to the action was caused by the  
    wilful act, or neglect, or abuse of another; or  
  
    2. That correction of the violation was commenced promptly upon  
    receipt of the notice thereof, but that full compliance within the  
    time specified was prevented by inability to obtain necessary  
    materials or labor, inability to gain access to the public place, or  
    other condition or circumstance beyond the control of the defendant.  
  
    SMC 15.90.020   Alternative criminal penalty.  
  
    Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions  
    of Title 15 shall be guilty of a gross misdemeanor subject to the  
    provisions of Chapters 12A.02 and 12A.04, except that absolute  
    liability shall be imposed for such a violation or failure to comply  
    and none of the mental states described in Section 12A.04.030 need be  
    proved. The Director may request the City Attorney to prosecute such  
    violations criminally as an alternative to the notice of violation  
    procedure outlined in this chapter.  Each day any person shall  
    continue to violate or fail to comply with the provisions of this  
    title and each occurrence of a prohibited activity shall be deemed and  
    considered a separate offense.  
  
    SMC 15.90.022   Additional relief.  
  
    The Director may seek legal or equitable relief to enjoin any acts or  
    practices and abate any condition which constitutes or will constitute  
    a violation of the Street and Sidewalk Use Code when civil or criminal  
    penalties are inadequate to effect compliance.  In any such action,  
    the City has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence  
    that a violation exists or will exist; the issuance of the notice of  
    violation or of an order following a review by the Director is not  
    itself evidence that a violation exists or will exist.  Nothing in  
    this section shall prevent the Director from abating any use of a  
    public place without a permit or impounding personal property in a  
    public place without a permit pursuant to SMC 15.04.072, 15.18.020,  
    and Chapter 15.38.  
  
    Section 4.   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2002, and signed  
    by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day  
    of __________, 2002.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2002.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2002.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    7/14/02  
    version #2  
    t  
