* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114628**   
**Ordinance Number: 121213**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and ordering the payment thereof.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 14, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 22, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 21, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 14, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** FINANCE  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and  
    ordering the payment thereof.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    SECTION 1.  Payment of the sum of Eleven Million, Two Hundred Eleven  
    Thousand, Two Hundred Ninety Five and 56/100 dollars ($11,211,295.56)  
    on Summit mechanical checks numbered, 40006898151 - 4000700257, plus  
    manual or cancellation issues for claims, and Electronic Financial  
    Transactions (EFT) in the amount of Forty Eight Million, Four Hundred  
    Sixty One Thousand, Eight Hundred Eighteen and 16/100 dollars,  
    ($48,461,818.16) are presented for ratification by the City Council  
    per Chapter 42.23 RCA.  
  
    SECTION 2.  Payment of the sum of Twenty Four Million, Eight Hundred  
    Fifty Nine Thousand, One Hundred Eighty Four and 28/100 dollars  
    ($24,859,184.28) on City General Salary Fund mechanical checks  
    numbered 50784000- 50786339 plus manual checks, agencies checks, and  
    direct deposits numbered 270001 - 279484 representing Gross Payrolls  
    for payroll ending date July 1, 2003 as detailed in the Payroll  
    Summary Report for claims against the City which were audited by the  
    Auditing Committee and reported by said committee to the City Council  
    on July 10, 2003 consistent with appropriations heretofore made for  
    such purpose from the appropriate Funds, is hereby approved.  
  
    SECTION 3.  That any act consistent with the authority and prior to  
    the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    SECTION 4.  This ordinance, being an ordinance required for the  
    payment of salaries or current expenses, shall take effect and be in  
    force immediately upon its approval, if approved by the Mayor;  
    otherwise it shall take effect at the time it shall become a law under  
    the provisions of the City Charter.  
  
    Passed by the City Council on the 14th day of July. 2003 and signed by  
    me in open session in authentication of its passage this July 14,  
    2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      President ___________ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    L shields  
  
    Audited Claims Ordinance  
  
    July 14, 2003  
