* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114630**   
**Ordinance Number: 121231**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with Ticketmaster L.L.C. for provision of ticketing services at Seattle Center.  
  
**Status:** Passed as amended   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 21, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 30, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 29, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 14, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK   
  
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-CENTER, CONTRACTS, ENTERTAINMENT-INDUSTRY, SEATTLE-CENTER-FACILITIES  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114630.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114630  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing  
    execution of an agreement with Ticketmaster L.L.C. for provision of  
    ticketing services at Seattle Center.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  As requested by the Seattle Center Director and  
    recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director or her designee  
    is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an  
    agreement with Ticketmaster L.L.C. substantially in the form of the  
    agreement attached hereto and identified as "LICENSED USER AGREEMENT"  
    (Attachment 1) under which, for a term of three years, Ticketmaster  
    shall provide ticketing services at Seattle Center and equip and  
    operate box office facilities on the Seattle Center campus.  
  
    Section 2.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachment 1:  LICENSED USER AGREEMENT  
  
    Exhibits to Attachment 1:  
  
    EXHIBIT A -- KEYARENA BOX OFFICE (West Court Building)  
  
    EXHIBIT A-1 -- KEYARENA BOX OFFICE (Southeast Ticket Office)  
  
    EXHIBIT B -- McCAW HALL SELLING OFFICE  
  
    EXHIBIT C -- THOMAS STREET KIOSK  
  
    EXHIBIT D -- HARDWARE SCHEDULE  
  
    EXHIBIT E -- COMPENSATION SCHEDULES  
  
    EXHIBIT F -- CONVENIENCE CHARGES PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE  
  
    Ned Dunn/nd  
  
    Ticketmaster Ordinance  
  
    June 18, 2003  
  
    version #1  
  
    Attachment 1  
  
    Attachment 1  
  
    LICENSED USER AGREEMENT  
  
    THIS LICENSED USER AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is executed this ____ day of _____  
    2003, by and between Ticketmaster L.L.C. ("Ticketmaster"), a Delaware limited  
    liability company, and The City of Seattle ("the City"), a first class city of  
    the State of Washington.  This Agreement consists of this Licensed User  
    Agreement, Exhibit A, Exhibit A-1, Exhibit B, Exhibit C, Exhibit D, Exhibit E  
    and Exhibit F, which are incorporated herein by reference.  
  
    In consideration of the mutual promises and covenants set forth herein, the  
    parties hereby agree as follows:  
  
    1.  Definitions.  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the  
    respective meanings indicated below unless expressly stated otherwise:  
  
      (a)  Attraction:  A sporting event, concert or other entertainment feature to  
    be held in any of the Facilities for which the City is authorized to sell  
    Tickets to the public, other than an Excluded Attraction.  
  
      (b)  Attraction Taxes: Any and all sales, amusement, admissions and other  
    taxes, charges, fees, levies or other assessments measured by reference to a  
    charge per Ticket sold or determined based upon the purchase price of a Ticket,  
    assessed by federal, state, county, municipal or other governmental or quasi-  
    governmental authorities as a result of, or in connection with, any Attraction  
    but not including Washington State leasehold excise taxes.  
  
      (c)  Box Offices: The KeyArena Box Office and the Thomas Street Kiosk,  
    collectively.  
  
      (d)  Contract Year: Each calendar year during the Term of this Agreement.  
  
      (e)  Convenience Charge: The amount Ticketmaster charges a Ticket purchaser  
    for the use of the TM System.  
  
      (f)  Excluded Attraction(s): Any of the events described in Section 2(a), 2(b)  
    and 2(c) of this Agreement.  
  
      (g)  Face Value: The face price of a Ticket as determined by the City, which  
    shall be inclusive of all applicable Attraction Taxes and facility, parking and  
    similar fees, and which specifically does not include the Convenience Charge.  
  
      (h)  Facility or Facilities: The KeyArena, Mercer Arts Arena or its successor,  
    and Marion Oliver McCaw Hall, all located at or adjacent to the Seattle Center,  
    located in Seattle, Washington, and any other Seattle Center venue or location  
    at which the City schedules or presents a sporting, entertainment or other act  
    or event of any kind or nature whatsoever in respect of which the City has  
    authority to sell Tickets to the public and wishes Ticketmaster to perform  
    ticket-selling services under this Agreement.  
  
      (i)  Group Sales: Sales of Tickets to one person, on behalf of a group of at  
    least fifteen (15) people to attend an Attraction as a group, and not to attend  
    individually or to purchase Tickets with the intent to resell such Tickets.  
  
      (j)  Hardware:  All of the computer hardware, communications equipment,  
    terminals and hook-ups listed with particularity on Exhibit D, which is attached  
    hereto and incorporated herein by reference, or otherwise supplied by  
    Ticketmaster to the City at any time during the Term of this Agreement.  
  
      (k)  House Seats: Tickets provided by the City (e.g. complimentary, band holds  
    and house seats) to the Promoter or presenter of an Attraction, the performing  
    act or event or members thereof, or their managers or agents (collectively,  
    "House Seat Recipients"), for legitimate mail order fan clubs or for legitimate  
    promotional purposes.  
  
      (l)  Internet Sales means all sales of Tickets over the Internet or any other  
    means of interaction with any of Ticketmaster's Internet sites, currently known  
    as "ticketmaster.com," (also referred to herein as the "TM.com Website")  
    "ticketweb.com" and "museumtix.com" which are currently available to users of  
    the World Wide Web portion of the Internet, and any ticketing property, feature  
    or product acquired by Ticketmaster or its affiliates that may become available  
    subsequent to the Effective Date including, without limitation, any co-branded  
    versions and any version distributed through any broadband distribution platform  
    or through any platform or device including television, broadband and wireless  
    technologies (collectively, the "TM.com Website").  
  
      (m)  KeyArena Box Office: The Ticket-selling location in the West Court  
    Building as indicated on Exhibit A, together with such Ticket-selling window and  
    offices on the east side of the KeyArena as may be determined by the Director  
    and shall be indicated on Exhibit A-1, each of which is attached hereto.  
  
      (n)  McCaw Hall Selling Office: The Ticket-selling location in the Marion  
    Oliver McCaw Hall, as indicated on Exhibit B.  
  
      (o)  Outlet:  A retail Ticket-selling agency where Tickets for an Attraction  
    are made available through the TM System and are offered for sale to the public,  
    but not including the Box Offices or the Marion Oliver McCaw Hall Selling  
    Office.  
  
      (p)  Promoter:  The organizer, promoter or other provider of an Attraction.  
  
      (q)  Season/Contract Tickets: Specifically designated Tickets sold directly by  
    the City on an annual basis across all Attractions or across a category of  
    Attractions (i.e. luxury suites, club level seats and season tickets).  
  
      (r)  Seattle Center Administration Area: The Seattle Center House.  
  
      (s)  Sellable Capacity: The number of Tickets that can be sold for an  
    Attraction other than Season/Contract Tickets.  
  
      (t)  Software:  All the computer software facilitating the sale of Attraction  
    Tickets through the TM System, including all upgrades, new releases, new  
    versions and modifications thereto during the Term of this Agreement.  
  
      (u)  Telephone Sales: All sales of Tickets through the TM System by telephone,  
    interactive voice response (IVR) and similar means.  
  
      (v)  Thomas Street Kiosk: The Ticket selling location in the kiosk located on  
    Thomas Street near the Space Needle, as indicated on Exhibit C.  
  
      (w)  Ticket:  Printed, electronic or other type of evidence of the right to  
    occupy space at or to enter or attend an Attraction, including but not limited  
    to, tickets printed via ticketFast( at home or elsewhere by the purchaser even  
    if not evidenced by any physical manifestation of such right, such as a "smart  
    card".  .  
  
      (x)  Ticket Receipts: Revenue from ticket sales for Attractions at the  
    Facilities from the Box Offices and McCaw Hall Selling Office and at all  
    Outlets, by Internet Sales and Telephone Sales.  
  
      (y)  TM System: The Hardware, Software, related procedures and personnel,  
    repair and maintenance services established and maintained by Ticketmaster for  
    the purpose of selling, auditing and controlling the sale of Tickets for  
    Attractions.  
  
    2.  Purpose/Exclusivity.  The City hereby grants to Ticketmaster, and  
    Ticketmaster accepts from the City, the exclusive right during the Term of this  
    Agreement to sell, as the City's exclusive agent, all Tickets for the Sellable  
    Capacity for every Attraction other than those specified in Subsections 2(a),  
    2(b) and 2(c) hereof, via any and all means and methods whatsoever, including,  
    without limitation, on the Internet, by telephone, computer, IVR, television,  
    clubs outlets or any other means of distribution.  Subject to the terms of this  
    Section 2, the City retains the right to: (i) sell single Tickets from the Box  
    Offices to persons physically present at the Box Offices; (ii) sell  
    Season/Contract Tickets; (iii) conduct Group Sales of Tickets; (iv) provide a  
    reasonable number of House Seats for any Attraction to House Seat Recipients,  
    provided, however that at no time shall such House Seat Tickets be sold or  
    issued to the general public; (v) sell mail order tickets; and (vi) upon mutual  
    agreement by both parties allow a percentage, in no event greater than ten (10)  
    percent of sellable seats, to be sold through legitimate fan clubs.  
    Notwithstanding the above, the City shall not directly or indirectly from the  
    Box Offices, the McCaw Hall Selling Office or otherwise, (i) use, sponsor,  
    promote, authorize or permit the use of any Internet website other than the  
    TM.com Website or any equipment or services of any computerized or Internet  
    ticketing company or system other than the TM System (any such website,  
    equipment, services, company or system, a "Third Party Provider") in connection  
    with the sale, resale or issuance of Tickets; or (ii) sell or issue Tickets to  
    any person who the City believes (or has a reasonable basis to believe) will  
    sell or issue such Tickets using a Third Party Provider.  In addition, the City  
    shall not directly or indirectly authorize or permit any Tickets for any  
    Attraction which are retained, purchased, controlled or otherwise acquired or  
    obtained by any House Seat Recipient or any of its affiliates to be sold or  
    issued in any way and for any purpose using a Third Party Provider. The City  
    will be deemed to have a reasonable basis to believe that a person will sell or  
    issue Tickets using a Third Party Provider if the City is aware that such person  
    or any of its affiliates is currently doing so with respect to tickets for  
    current attractions, or has actually done so in the past with respect to any of  
    the City's tickets.  The parties agree that the exclusive ticketing rights  
    granted to Ticketmaster herein are to include all future methods of and  
    technologies for Ticket sales, distribution and collection which may be  
    developed from time to time during the Term of this Agreement.  The services to  
    be rendered by Ticketmaster hereunder, and the rights and obligations of  
    Ticketmaster and the City in connection herewith, shall be governed by the terms  
    and conditions contained in this Agreement.  During the Term of this Agreement,  
    Ticketmaster shall provide to the City the Hardware and on-line access to the  
    Software.  The Hardware and Software shall at all times be and remain the sole  
    and exclusive property of Ticketmaster, and the City shall have no right, title  
    or interest therein or thereto except as provided herein.  
  
      (a)  Tickets for the following tenants/Promoters of the Facilities are  
    excluded from this Agreement unless otherwise agreed to by the parties:  
  
        (i)  The Basketball Club of Seattle, with respect to Seattle SuperSonics and  
    Seattle Storm Home Games, as defined in the City's Premises Use and Occupancy  
    Agreement with the Basketball Club of Seattle, dated March 2, 1994, and the  
    Agreement Between The City of Seattle and the Basketball Club of Seattle LLC for  
    the use of KeyArena for Professional Women's Basketball, dated November 8, 2000,  
    respectively, or any successor agreements between the City and the Basketball  
    Club of Seattle LLC or its successors;  
  
        (ii)  Seattle Thunderbirds Hockey Club, Inc., with respect to Thunderbirds  
    Home Games, as defined in the City's Agreement with Seattle Thunderbirds Hockey  
    Club, dated October 1, 1997; or any successor agreement between the City and the  
    Seattle Thunderbirds Hockey Club or any successor hockey organization.  
  
        (iii)  One Reel, with respect to its "Bumbershoot" events;  
  
        (iv)  Seattle Opera, with respect to its Opera productions;  
  
        (v)  Pacific Northwest Ballet, with respect to its Ballet productions;  
  
      (b)  The City reserves the right to present benefit events (i.e., an event for  
    which no less than 60% of net proceeds from such event are given to charity)  
    that shall not be subject to this Agreement; provided, however, that  
    Ticketmaster shall have the right to review, audit and copy the City's books and  
    records as they relate to each such benefit event (including, without  
    limitation, ticket receipts and charitable contributions) in order to verify  
    that such benefit event properly came within the foregoing exception to the  
    exclusivity otherwise granted to Ticketmaster by this Agreement.  
  
      (c)  The City reserves the right to present events in facilities other than  
    those to which Ticketmaster has been granted exclusive ticket-selling rights  
    hereunder (e.g., the Mural Amphitheatre, Fisher Complex, Memorial Stadium) that  
    shall not be subject to this Agreement.  
  
      (d)  If Ticketmaster provides box office services for any of the Excluded  
    Attractions, Tickets for such Attractions shall be offered for sale from and at  
    the Box Offices and the McCaw Hall Selling Office.  
  
    3.  Term of Agreement.  This Agreement shall begin on January 1, 2003 (the  
    "Effective Date") and shall terminate December 31, 2005 ("the Term").  
  
    4.  Compensation.  As consideration for the services to be performed hereunder,  
    Ticketmaster shall receive the following fees and compensation:  
  
      (a) Convenience Charge:  Except for Tickets to Attractions purchased from the  
    Box Offices or the McCaw Hall Selling Office or Tickets to Excluded Attractions,  
    Ticketmaster shall collect from Ticket purchasers a Convenience Charge, to be  
    retained by Ticketmaster, for each Ticket sold at an Outlet, through Telephone  
    Sales and Internet Sales, and for each Ticket sold to a KeyArena suite.  The  
    amount of the Convenience Charge shall be as stated in Exhibit E hereto;  
    provided, however, that the Convenience Charge for Tickets to Attractions  
    produced by Feld Entertainment, Inc. shall be as stated in the agreement between  
    Ticketmaster and Feld, dated September 1, 1999.  
  
        (i)  Changes in Convenience Charges.  Ticketmaster and the City recognize  
    that it may be appropriate, from time to time, to increase or decrease the  
    Convenience Charges for certain Attractions.  Ticketmaster and the City will  
    consult and cooperate with each other to adjust Convenience Charges by their  
    mutual consent, on a case-by-case basis, to accommodate those special  
    circumstances.  
  
        (ii)  Increases in Convenience Charges.  The City reserves the right to  
    increase Convenience Charges, from the rates in effect immediately prior to the  
    Effective Date of this Agreement, by an amount not to exceed $1.50 per Ticket  
    total from the rates in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date of this  
    Agreement during the Term.  Such increases shall not be made more frequently  
    than once in any six-month period.  Upon any increase to the Convenience Charge,  
    City's Royalty shall be increased by an amount equal to 65% of the increased  
    amount of the Convenience Charge (rounded up) and Ticketmaster shall receive 35%  
    of the increased amount of the Convenience Charge; provided however, in no event  
    shall Ticketmaster's share of the 35% of the increased amount of the Convenience  
    Charge exceed $0.35.  In the event Ticketmaster's share of the increase is above  
    $0.35, the City and Ticketmaster agree that such excess amount shall be added to  
    City's Royalties.  For example only, if the Convenience Charge is $7.00 and the  
    City elects to increase the Convenience Charge to $7.50, City's Royalties will  
    be increased by $0.33 and Ticketmaster shall be entitled to retain $0.17.  
  
        (iii)  Decreases in Convenience Charges.  The City reserves the right to  
    "rollback" Convenience Charges to an amount no less than the charges in place  
    immediately prior to the Effective Date of this Agreement, provided, that the  
    amount of the Convenience Charges retained by Ticketmaster will not decrease  
    from the amount set forth on Exhibit E of this Agreement.  
  
        (iv)  Convenience Charges Prior to the Effective Date.  The parties  
    acknowledge and agree that the Convenience Charges immediately prior to the  
    Effective Date of this Agreement is set forth on Exhibit F of this Agreement.  
  
      (b)  Processing Fee:  Ticketmaster may impose and retain a processing fee in  
    the amount of (i) $1.50 per order on each person purchasing Tickets by Telephone  
    Sales and Internet Sales when such Tickets are mailed and for which Tickets have  
    a Face Value below $15.00 and (ii) $3.05 per order on each person purchasing  
    Tickets by Telephone Sales and Internet Sales when such Tickets are mailed and  
    for which Tickets have a Face Value of $15.00 and above.  In the event an order  
    contains a combination of Tickets with a Face Value of $15.00 and below and  
    Tickets with a Face Value of $15.00 and above, the processing fee shall be the  
    greater processing fee.  In addition, Ticketmaster may impose and retain a  
    processing fee in connection with mail order sales in the amount agreed upon  
    between the parties pursuant to Section 4(h).  Said processing fee may be  
    adjusted from time to time so as to be consistent with Ticketmaster's processing  
    fee for similar facilities and for the actual amount of any increase in the  
    postal service rate for mailing a first class letter, rounded to the next $.05.  
    Ticketmaster shall promptly notify the City of any such increase.  
  
      (c)  ticketFast(:  Ticketmaster may assess and retain a ticketFast( printing  
    fee of $1.75 per order.  The City shall have the right to direct Ticketmaster to  
    increase the ticketFast( printing fee by $.75 to a ticketFast( printing fee of  
    $2.50, in which case $.75 shall be remitted to the City by Ticketmaster.  
  
      (d)  Credit Card Sales:  
  
        (i)  Ticketmaster shall absorb all credit card company charges in connection  
    with the sale of Tickets at Outlets, through Telephone Sales and Internet Sales.  
  
        (ii)  Ticketmaster may accept payment by MasterCard and Visa for sales of  
    Tickets at the Box Offices and the McCaw Hall Selling Office, utilizing  
    Ticketmaster's credit card authorization network as provided in Section 14  
    below.  The City shall pay the merchant discount fee with respect to credit card  
    charges for Tickets purchased at the Box Offices and the McCaw Hall Selling  
    Office.  
  
        (iii)  If Ticketmaster assesses a credit card charge for processing Group  
    Sales or mail orders paid through the use of credit cards, the City or its  
    Promoters shall absorb 2.5% of the Face Value of such Tickets.  Such rate shall  
    be automatically adjusted by an amount no greater than the change in the  
    interbank rate, when such interbank rate is changed.  
  
      (e)  Day-of-Show Walk-Up Ticket Sales:  The City shall pay Ticketmaster a  
    staffing fee in the amount shown on Exhibit E (and without duplication for same-  
    day multiple events) with respect to day-of-sale walk-up sales for (i) all non-  
    concert Attractions and (ii) those concert Attractions which require more than  
    two (2) box office staff per Attraction.  
  
      (f)  Season/Contract Tickets:  Ticketmaster shall negotiate separate  
    Season/Contract Ticket account maintenance, storage and equipment charges with  
    each entity/Promoter to which the City has licensed or leased any of the  
    Facilities for which Season/Contract Tickets will be sold.  
  
      (g)  Group Sales:  In addition to the credit card charge provided in Section  
    4(d)(iii) above, Ticketmaster shall be entitled to postage reimbursement and a  
    mutually agreed upon processing fee for Group Sales.  The City retains the right  
    to establish a traditional Group Sales program and to set and collect fees in  
    connection therewith.  
  
      (h)  Mail Order Sales:  In addition to the credit card charge provided in  
    Section 4(d)(iii) above, Ticketmaster and the City shall negotiate a processing  
    fee for mail orders.  
  
      (i)  Advertising:  City shall have the right to place advertising on the backs  
    of Tickets for Attractions at the Facilities sold at the Box Offices and the  
    McCaw Hall Selling Office, and on any envelopes used to hold such Tickets.  City  
    shall bear the cost of printing the stock for any such Tickets or ticket  
    envelopes, and shall retain all revenue derived from such advertising.  If the  
    City does not exercise this right, Ticketmaster shall have the right to place  
    advertising and retain all revenue from advertising placed on the back of  
    Tickets for Attractions at the Facilities sold at the Box Offices and the McCaw  
    Hall Selling Office and on envelopes used to hold such Tickets, provided,  
    however, that such advertising shall be subject to the approval of the City,  
    which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.  In order to meet the City's  
    desire to retain a family atmosphere at Seattle Center, Ticketmaster shall not  
    allow any Tickets to Attractions at the Facilities sold at the Box Offices or  
    the McCaw Hall Selling Office, or any envelopes used to hold such Tickets, to  
    display any advertising for any tobacco product or any alcoholic beverage other  
    than beer or wine.  
  
    The City hereby grants to Ticketmaster the right, in Ticketmaster's sole  
    discretion, to advertise Attractions and the availability of Tickets at the Box  
    Offices and the McCaw Hall Selling Office, at all Outlets and by Internet Sales  
    and Telephone Sales and, in connection therewith, to use (i) the names and logos  
    of the Seattle Center and the Facility at which an Attraction is to be  
    presented, and (ii) other pertinent information regarding the Attraction.  
    Subject to Section 4(i) above, Ticketmaster, in its sole discretion, may promote  
    and advertise on its own behalf, or on behalf of the City or others, on the back  
    side of all Tickets sold through the TM System, including, without limitation,  
    at all Outlets and through Internet Sales and Telephone Sales.  The City may,  
    during the Term hereof, provide and place advertisements in any form of media  
    that the City desires to use to promote the availability of Tickets; provided,  
    however, that if the City places any such advertisements it shall use its best  
    efforts to cause Ticketmaster's corporate name, logo, applicable TM.com Website  
    address and charge-by-phone number to be displayed in the advertisement, as well  
    as the address of the Facility and, if possible, the identity of the Outlets  
    where Tickets may be purchased.  
  
      (j)  Secondary Market Sales:  The parties agree that the exclusive rights  
    granted to Ticketmaster herein are intended to cover all sales and distributions  
    of tickets, including sales, issuances, reissuances and exchanges of Tickets in  
    the secondary market.  Accordingly, the City cannot sell, issue or authorize for  
    sale or issuance any Tickets on any secondary market service.  Ticketmaster  
    shall provide secondary sales services to the City only after terms and  
    conditions have been mutually determined by the parties hereto.  
  
    5.  City's Royalties, Advances and Other Benefits:  
  
      (a)  Subject to the provisions of Section 5(b), Ticketmaster shall pay the  
    City royalties in the amounts specified in Exhibit E ("City's Royalties") to the  
    extent Ticketmaster retains and does not refund the respective Convenience  
    Charges.  
  
      (b)  Upon execution of this Agreement, Ticketmaster shall pay the City  
    $150,000, as an advance against the City's Royalties and recoupable from the  
    City's Royalties payable during the first Contract Year.  On the first day of  
    the second and each subsequent Contract Year, Ticketmaster shall pay the City an  
    advance in an amount equal to the City's Royalties for the previous Contract  
    Year less the amount, if any, of the previous Contract Year's advance that was  
    not earned, recoupable against the City's Royalties to be earned during the  
    then-current Contract Year.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall  
    the advance for any Contract Year exceed $150,000.  When the City's Royalties  
    for a Contract Year equal the entire amount of such advance, Ticketmaster shall  
    commence paying the City all the City's Royalties thereafter earned during such  
    Contract Year in accordance with the provisions of Section 21(a), below.  If, in  
    the final year of the Term, the City's Royalties do not equal or exceed the  
    amount of the advance for that Contract Year, the City shall refund to  
    Ticketmaster the difference between the advance and the amount of City's  
    Royalties earned for that Contract Year.  
  
    In the event of an earlier termination of this Agreement for any reason, if the  
    advance for any Contract Year has not been fully recouped by Ticketmaster, the  
    City shall remit the outstanding balance of the advance for such Contract Year  
    to Ticketmaster by wire transfer or certified check within thirty (30) days  
    after termination occurs or Ticketmaster submits its final report to the City,  
    whichever occurs later.  In the event the City assigns this Agreement pursuant  
    to Section 32 below, the City shall, at Ticketmaster's election, either (a)  
    remit the outstanding balance of the advance for the applicable Contract Year to  
    Ticketmaster as provided above or (b) require in writing that the City's  
    permitted assignee ("Transferee") expressly agrees to assume this Agreement,  
    including responsibility for the return of any unpaid amount of the advance for  
    the applicable Contract Year to Ticketmaster in the event the outstanding amount  
    of the advance for the applicable Contract Year is not fully earned by the City  
    or such Transferee and fully recouped by Ticketmaster during the Term of this  
    Agreement, but in no event would such assumption relieve the City of its  
    obligation related to any unpaid advance.  
  
      (c)  Ticketmaster shall expend $7,500 per Contract Year for signage and  
    advertising at the Box Offices and McCaw Hall Selling Office, as reasonably  
    directed by the City.  
  
      (d)  No later than 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter,  
    Ticketmaster shall pay the City all of the interest earned on City revenues held  
    in the accounts referenced in Section 21(a) hereof and earned during that  
    quarter.  
  
      (e)  The City retains the right to assess a patron user or facility  
    maintenance fee on Tickets to Attractions upon providing Ticketmaster with  
    reasonable prior notice of such fee, which fee shall be collected and remitted  
    to the City by Ticketmaster.  
  
      (f)  Upon execution of this Agreement, Ticketmaster shall pay the City a one-  
    time, non-refundable fee of $50,000 to be used in the development of Ticket  
    sales-generating activities and Ticketmaster shall have the right to review  
    invoices in connection with the City's use of the $50,000 to ensure the City's  
    compliance with the terms of this Section 5(f).  
  
      (g)  Ticketmaster shall maintain, throughout the Term of this Agreement, an  
    agreement with The Basketball Club of Seattle to lease one-half of a suite in  
    the KeyArena, subject to the specific terms of the agreement between  
    Ticketmaster and the Basketball Club of Seattle.  
  
    6.  Number of Tickets Sold.  Neither Ticketmaster nor the City guarantees that  
    any minimum or fixed number of Tickets will be sold through the TM System for  
    any Attraction.  
  
    7.  Central Computer Facility; Conduct of Telephone Sales; ADA.  
  
      (a)  Ticketmaster shall, at its sole expense, maintain a central computer  
    facility at such location or locations as it shall deem necessary for the  
    operation of the TM System.  The central computer facility shall be in operation  
    no fewer than 16 hours a day during each and every day of the year, and shall be  
    adequately staffed to perform all on-going assistance, maintenance and repair  
    services required so as to enable Ticketmaster to perform its obligations under  
    this Agreement.  In addition to the foregoing, Ticketmaster shall provide  
    telephone Ticket sales services on behalf of the City with respect to  
    Attractions and, in that regard, shall receive telephone calls for Ticket sales  
    Monday through Sunday, except on Christmas Day, at a minimum between the hours  
    of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, between the hours of 9:00  
    a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on Saturdays and between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00  
    p.m. on Sundays, with occasional exceptions for holidays, e.g., early closure on  
    Easter Sunday, or other special circumstances which may from time to time arise.  
    Such telephone service shall be adequately staffed to respond to customer calls  
    with reasonable promptness with respect to Ticket sales.  
  
      (b)  Ticketmaster and the City, in compliance with provisions of the Americans  
    with Disabilities Act, shall make all reasonable efforts to accommodate persons  
    with disabilities in the sale of Tickets, including sales by internet and by  
    telephone, which efforts shall include, but are not limited to, the maintenance  
    of a TTD/TTY telephone service for the deaf and hard of hearing, it being agreed  
    and understood that any building costs, including, but not limited to,  
    structural costs, at the Facilities incurred in connection therewith shall be  
    fully payable by, and shall be the obligation of, the City.  
  
    8.  Maintenance and Repairs.  
  
      (a)  Ticketmaster shall bear all installation costs with respect to the  
    Hardware, the cost of all telephone line connections between the central  
    computer facility and the Box Offices and the McCaw Hall Selling Office, if  
    applicable, and all monthly telephone line costs with respect to the operation  
    of the TM System between the Box Offices and the central computer facility and  
    the McCaw Hall Selling Office, if applicable, and the central computer facility.  
    Ticketmaster shall provide ordinary and routine maintenance and repair of the TM  
    System at the Box Offices, the McCaw Hall Selling Office, if applicable, and in  
    the Seattle Center Administration area at no cost to the City, provided that  
    such maintenance or repair is not necessitated by the negligence of the City, or  
    any of it employees, agents or representatives.  Ticketmaster represents and  
    warrants that adequate service and repair personnel shall be on duty at the  
    central computer facility to perform its obligations hereunder in a timely  
    manner.  The City hereby grants Ticketmaster's personnel access to the Box  
    Offices and to a telecommunications room in the Seattle Center Administration  
    area 24 hours a day, in order for Ticketmaster to perform its duties pursuant to  
    this Section 8(a), and access to the McCaw Hall Selling Office, subject to the  
    use of such space by Pacific Northwest Ballet and Seattle Opera.  If the City  
    experiences any breakdown or malfunction of the Hardware, or difficulty  
    accessing the Software, the City shall promptly notify Ticketmaster of such  
    malfunction and Ticketmaster shall promptly repair the same.  Ticketmaster shall  
    respond to an emergency as quickly as possible to provide the City with repair  
    services.  
  
      (b)  Ticketmaster shall pay for all non-durable operational supplies that are  
    used at the Box Offices in connection with the operation of the TM System.  
  
      (c)  Throughout the Term, as needs and opportunities arise, Ticketmaster shall  
    replace the Hardware, the initial provision of which is listed in Exhibit D, to  
    keep up with current technology and the needs of the Facilities.  
  
    9.  Short Term Interruptions.  Occasional interruptions of service of not more  
    than six hours shall not be cause for any liability or claim against  
    Ticketmaster hereunder, nor shall any such occasion render Ticketmaster in  
    default under this Agreement.  
  
    10.  Ticketmaster's Box Office Services.  Ticketmaster shall equip and operate  
    the Box Offices as is necessary to satisfactorily carry out its responsibilities  
    under this Agreement.  Ticketmaster may sell Tickets to events other than  
    Attractions from the Box Offices, and shall be entitled to assess and receive  
    all Ticket Receipts and any Convenience Charges applicable to such Tickets, and  
    with respect to said Tickets, the City shall be entitled to the City Royalties  
    as are set forth in Exhibit E, Table 2 attached hereto, to the extent  
    Ticketmaster receives and does not refund the respective Convenience Charges  
    applicable to such Tickets.  Ticketmaster's services under this Agreement shall  
    include those services normally performed by Ticketmaster at other facility box  
    offices with respect to the sale, accounting and auditing of Ticket sales at  
    such facilities, and shall include, but not be limited to, the performance of  
    the following services, all at Ticketmaster's expense and discretion:  
  
      (a)  the supply of cash, in various denominations and amounts at the sole  
    discretion of Ticketmaster, to enable Ticketmaster to sell Tickets to the  
    public;  
  
      (b)  the acceptance of cash; checks at Ticketmaster's sole discretion; and  
    credit cards at Ticketmaster's sole discretion, consistent with the provisions  
    of subsection 4(d) hereof, as the method of payment on Ticket sales at the Box  
    Offices;  
  
      (c)  the provision of such number and types of trained staff as may be  
    necessary, in Ticketmaster's sole discretion, to efficiently operate the  
    KeyArena Box Office Monday through Saturday from 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. each  
    day, and the Thomas Street Kiosk Saturday through Sunday from 10 a.m. - 6 p.m.  
    each day from Labor Day to Memorial Day, Sunday through Saturday from 10 a.m. -  
    6 p.m. each day from Memorial Day to Labor Day, and at other days and times to  
    reasonably meet Attraction needs; provided, however, that the minimum level of  
    trained staff shall be four people (a box office manager, an assistant box  
    office manager, and two Ticket sellers);  
  
      (d)  the provision of "will-call" services, at no additional charge, for  
    persons ordering Tickets by Telephone Sales and Internet Sales;  
  
      (e)  the provision of all furniture, materials and supplies of a quality and  
    quantity as is determined by Ticketmaster to be necessary to fully and  
    efficiently perform Box Office operations;  
  
      (f)  the collection, deposit and/or disbursement of all amounts derived from  
    Ticket sales at the Box Offices in accordance with the policies and procedures  
    as established, from time to time, by Ticketmaster, and the terms and conditions  
    of this Agreement; provided, that in the event of any conflict between any  
    policy and procedure and any term or condition of this Agreement, the term or  
    condition of this Agreement shall control;  
  
      (g)  the provision of audit and sales reports of each Attraction; and  
  
      (h)  at Ticketmaster's discretion, the provision of uniformed, armed, police  
    security dedicated to the Box Offices, cash handling facilities, armored car  
    delivery and pick-up services.  
  
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, Ticketmaster shall  
    have no duty or obligation under this Agreement to operate or staff the Box  
    Offices with respect to the sale of Tickets or the provision of other services  
    relating to any Attraction covered by Sections 2(a), 2(b) and 2(c) hereof,  
    except as is provided in Section 2(d) above.  In addition, with respect to any  
    Excluded Attraction, other than the Home Games of The Basketball Club of Seattle  
    under that entity's Use and Occupancy Agreement with the City, (i) no tenant or  
    other person associated with such Excluded Attraction shall use or have access  
    to the KeyArena Box Office at any time that Ticketmaster is utilizing or  
    servicing the KeyArena Box Office and (ii) Ticketmaster shall have the right to  
    have one of its employees present in the KeyArena Box Office for security  
    purposes at all times when a tenant or other person associated with such  
    Excluded Attraction is present in the KeyArena Box Office, for which  
    Ticketmaster shall be paid a fee of $17.00 per hour. The City shall give  
    Ticketmaster at least 24 hours' prior notice of the intent of the tenant or  
    other person associated with an Excluded Attraction to enter the KeyArena Box  
    Office.  
  
    11.  Other Box Office Services.  Ticketmaster shall operate, at no expense to  
    the City, except as otherwise provided in Section 4(e), the box office space on  
    the east side of the KeyArena designated by the Director, and in the Mercer Arts  
    Arena and McCaw Hall on the day of any Attraction other than an Excluded  
    Attraction in such Facility, for a period of time no less than two hours prior  
    to the start time of the Attraction through one hour following the start time of  
    the Attraction.  
  
    12.  Box Office Responsibilities.  The Box Offices shall be available for  
    Ticketmaster's use pursuant to this Agreement 24 hours each day.  Ticketmaster  
    shall be responsible for the normal everyday interior cleaning of the Box  
    Offices.  The City shall maintain and repair the Box Offices in a manner at  
    least equal to the City's current maintenance standards for the KeyArena.  The  
    City shall furnish Ticketmaster with keys to the Box Offices and the names of  
    those employees or contractors who are to be permitted access to the Box  
    Offices; provided, however, that except in the case of an emergency, no employee  
    or contractor of the City shall enter the Box Offices unless he or she is in the  
    presence of a Ticketmaster employee.  The City, at its expense, shall supply the  
    Box Offices with sufficient electricity, HVAC, and local telephone service for  
    Ticketmaster's performance hereunder.  
  
    13.  Taxes. The City shall keep the Hardware free and clear of all levies, liens  
    and encumbrances which are caused by the City or under the City's control and  
    shall promptly reimburse Ticketmaster for all license fees, registration fees,  
    assessments, charges and taxes, whether federal, state, county, municipal or  
    other governmental or quasi-governmental, with respect to any City-owned  
    hardware located at the Facility, including, without limitation, use, excise and  
    property taxes, and penalties and interest with respect thereto.  The City shall  
    be responsible for preparing and timely filing any and all tax returns or  
    reports required to be filed in respect of Attraction Taxes, and for timely  
    remitting the Attraction Taxes to the appropriate taxing authority. Ticketmaster  
    will collect the Face Value of each Ticket and turn over to the City the Ticket  
    Receipts to which it is entitled as provided in Section 21.  Ticketmaster's  
    settlement statements shall include line items for the Face Value, the facility  
    fee, the Admission Taxes, the City Taxes and the State Taxes which the Seattle  
    Center may use in its remittance of Attractions Taxes.  Ticketmaster makes no  
    representations in the calculation or the accuracy of any Attraction Taxes. In  
    the event that Ticketmaster pays any Attraction Taxes on behalf of the City, the  
    City shall promptly reimburse Ticketmaster for any and all such Attraction Taxes  
    paid by Ticketmaster, including penalties and interest assessed with respect  
    thereto (other than Attraction Taxes, penalties and interest that Ticketmaster  
    pays directly out of the City's Ticket Receipts), and shall also promptly  
    reimburse Ticketmaster for any and all expenses (including reasonable attorneys'  
    fees) or damages that result from the failure by the City to properly calculate  
    and timely remit Attraction Taxes, to timely file all returns or reports, or to  
    timely reimburse Ticketmaster for any and all such Attraction Taxes, interest  
    and penalties as provided above.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event  
    that Ticketmaster is ever required by applicable law to remit Attraction Taxes  
    directly and file related tax returns or reports, Ticketmaster shall have the  
    right to do so upon notice to the City, and thereafter "Ticket Receipts" shall  
    be defined to be reduced by such Attraction Taxes.  Ticketmaster shall pay and  
    hold the City harmless from and against all taxes that may be assessed or  
    incurred with respect to the Box Offices and their operation, including but not  
    limited to leasehold excise taxes, business and occupation taxes; income,  
    payroll, withholding and other taxes with respect to Ticketmaster's employees  
    that work in the Box Offices and the McCaw Hall Selling Office, as applicable.  
    The provisions of this Section 13 shall survive the termination or expiration of  
    this Agreement for up to six years after termination.  
  
    14.  Credit Card Authorization Network.  
  
      (a)  In connection with sales of single Tickets from the Box Offices,  
    Ticketmaster shall, at the request of the City, utilize a credit card  
    authorization network ("C.C.A.N.") for processing Visa and MasterCard  
    transactions only.  Ticketmaster shall transmit data relating to sales of  
    Tickets made at the Box Offices using C.C.A.N. to Ticketmaster's merchant bank  
    ("Merchant Bank") under the account name(s) and location(s) to be designated by  
    Ticketmaster and the City.  Ticketmaster shall instruct the Merchant Bank to  
    transmit such data to Visa and MasterCard for payment to Ticketmaster for the  
    City.  
  
    Ticketmaster shall use its best efforts to ensure the accuracy of information  
    transferred from the Merchant Bank via C.C.A.N. and presented in the form of TM  
    System reports, but Ticketmaster does not guarantee the accuracy and timeliness  
    of such information.  
  
      (b)  The City shall pay to Merchant Bank via Ticketmaster, on a monthly basis,  
    a cumulative merchant discount fee equal to 2.25% (2.5%, however, with respect  
    to Group Sales or  mail orders) of the amount of the City's Visa and MasterCard  
    transactions processed through C.C.A.N., which fee shall be automatically  
    increased in an amount equal to any actual increases in Ticketmaster's merchant  
    discount fee.  The City may pass such fees through to its promoters and make  
    collection and payment at the time of Box Office settlement.  
  
      (c)  If the parties agree that Ticketmaster will process credit card  
    transactions other than Visa or Master Card through C.C.A.N. on the City's  
    behalf, the parties shall negotiate the fees for such service.  
  
      (d)  In processing credit card transactions at the Box Offices, Ticketmaster  
    shall use such standards and procedures as are customary and reasonable for such  
    activities for the purpose of minimizing fraudulent transactions.  The City  
    shall be responsible for any and all amounts charged to Ticketmaster by Merchant  
    Bank for processing City transactions, including, but not limited to,  
    chargebacks, fraudulent credit card use, and additional charges for failure to  
    meet the specific timing or other qualifications of Visa, MasterCard or Merchant  
    Bank, unless such charges are caused by Ticketmaster's negligence.  
  
      (e)  Ticketmaster, at its sole expense, shall provide any and all equipment  
    required in order for the Box Offices to be connected to C.C.A.N. for purposes  
    of this Agreement.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this  
    Agreement, Ticketmaster does not guarantee the operability of the C.C.A.N. or  
    any equivalent equipment and shall not be responsible for performing any  
    maintenance services on such equipment.  
  
    15.  Installation.  Following the execution of this Agreement, Ticketmaster  
    shall proceed in good faith and with due diligence to install the Hardware and  
    all telephone connections, lines and equipment (to the extent not already  
    installed) that Ticketmaster determines necessary to ensure the Box Offices and  
    Seattle Center Administration area.  Hardware and Software shall be fully  
    operational on or before January 31, 2003, and the McCaw Hall Selling Office by  
    no later than May 30, 2003.  
  
    16.  General Responsibilities of the City.  The City shall designate in writing  
    to Ticketmaster the individual who will serve as the City's representative with  
    respect to the resolution of disputes, which may arise in connection with the  
    administration of this Agreement.  The City initially designates Carl Weinstein,  
    Seattle Center Director of Event Production as the City's representative in such  
    capacity.  
  
    17.  Audit of Sales.  At all times during the Term of this Agreement, the City  
    shall have the right, at its own expense, to audit records of Ticket sales for  
    Attractions to assure its compliance with the terms of this Agreement.  
  
    18.  Outlets.  The City shall not bear any cost with respect to the operation of  
    Outlets.  
  
    19.  Attraction Set-Up.  Before the sale of any Ticket for an Attraction, the  
    City shall furnish Ticketmaster with such information as is necessary for the  
    proper sale of Tickets thereto, including information as to the proposed  
    arrangement of the Facility for the Attraction, seating layout, Ticket  
    structure, permissible discounts, Ticket header information, color logos, entry  
    information, vision and hearing information, wheelchair and other accessible  
    seating information and such other information as is necessary for the proper  
    sale of Tickets at the Box Offices, at all Outlets, by Internet Sales and  
    Telephone Sales.  The City shall also provide verbiage for printing on Tickets  
    such as patron search requirements, the City's disclaimer respecting refund, the  
    purchaser's assumption of risk of injury, and such other relevant information as  
    the City shall deem necessary or appropriate.  Ticketmaster shall use its best  
    efforts to include the full name of the Facility in which the Attraction is held  
    on the face of each Ticket; provided, that for Attractions in the KeyArena, the  
    Facility name "KeyArena" shall always appear on the face of the Ticket and the  
    full name "KeyArena at Seattle Center" shall appear wherever possible, and for  
    Attractions in McCaw Hall, the Facility name "McCaw Hall" shall always appear on  
    the face of the Ticket and the full name "McCaw Hall at Seattle Center" shall  
    appear wherever possible.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the  
    contrary, the City must provide the information listed above to Ticketmaster at  
    least five (5) business days prior to the on sale date for new Attractions that  
    do not utilize seating charts then existing in the TM System.  The City must  
    provide the information listed above to Ticketmaster at least two (2) business  
    days prior to the on sale date for new Attractions that utilize seating charts  
    then existing in the TM System.  Ticketmaster shall have no responsibility and  
    the City shall indemnify and hold Ticketmaster harmless from and against any and  
    all liabilities, claims, expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) or  
    causes of action resulting from the inaccuracy of any information furnished by  
    the City pursuant to this Section.  
  
    20.  Delivery of Tickets.  Ticketmaster agrees to supply, at its expense, all  
    blank Ticket stock for use at the Box Offices.  Ticketmaster shall be  
    responsible for the security of Ticket stock in its possession at the Box  
    Offices.  
  
    21.  Accounting Procedures / Reporting Requirements.  
  
      (a)  Ticketmaster shall, for the benefit of the City, collect and deposit all  
    Ticket Receipts in an account to be maintained by Ticketmaster.  Withdrawals of  
    Ticket Receipts from such account shall be made by Ticketmaster during financial  
    settlement for the Attraction (i.e., during the performance of the Attraction),  
    the timing of which shall be determined by the Seattle Center Director, Deputy  
    Director or designee and provided to Ticketmaster a reasonable amount of time  
    prior to the financial settlement.  If any Attraction is canceled or postponed,  
    the amount of funds held by Ticketmaster from Ticket sales for such Attraction  
    (including Ticketmaster's share of the Convenience Charges) shall be used for  
    customer refunds.  It is agreed and understood that Ticketmaster is the Ticket-  
    selling agent of the City and therefore Ticketmaster's agreement to make any  
    refunds as the agent of the City is subject and limited to Ticketmaster holding  
    or receiving from the City the full amount of funds necessary to make refunds to  
    all Ticket purchasers properly entitled to a refund.  The City and Ticketmaster  
    agree that Ticketmaster shall be entitled to retain the processing fees  
    assessable with respect to the initial sale of Tickets to cancelled or postponed  
    Attractions although no additional compensation shall be payable to, or fee  
    assessed by, Ticketmaster with respect to the exchange of any Tickets initially  
    purchased from Ticketmaster.  If, as a result of royalty payments made by  
    Ticketmaster to the City, the amount of funds held by Ticketmaster from sales  
    for a canceled or postponed Attraction is insufficient to make refunds demanded  
    by purchasers, the City shall deliver the amount of prior royalty payments for  
    the Attraction to Ticketmaster no later than 24 hours after notice from  
    Ticketmaster to the City of the amount of the deficiency.  Ticketmaster shall  
    pay any funds remaining in said accounts from Ticket sales for a cancelled  
    Attraction to the City after 60 days following such cancellation, and the City  
    hereby agrees to indemnify and hold Ticketmaster harmless from and against any  
    and all claims, liabilities, costs, expenses, (including reasonable attorneys'  
    fees), fines and penalties, related to or connected with any claim for said  
    funds.  
  
      (b)  It is agreed and understood that Ticketmaster shall not be liable to the  
    City for the printing and sale of counterfeit Tickets when such action is beyond  
    the reasonable control of Ticketmaster provided that Ticketmaster has in place  
    reasonable controls to prevent the printing and sale of such counterfeit  
    Tickets.  
  
      (c)  If any Attraction is cancelled or postponed, Ticketmaster will refund the  
    Ticket price through the point of purchase.  In the alternative, the purchaser  
    of a Ticket to such Attraction shall be entitled to exchange such Ticket  
    pursuant to any exchange policy which may be adopted by the City and  
    Ticketmaster.  With respect to cancelled Attractions, Ticketmaster shall refund  
    the Convenience Charges assessed on the initial sale of Tickets thereto, and  
    Ticketmaster shall receive no additional compensation, nor assess any fee in  
    connection with the exchange of any Tickets initially purchased at any Outlet or  
    by Internet or Telephone Sales.  
  
      (d)  The City shall provide immediate written notice to Ticketmaster in the  
    event it files any voluntary or involuntary petition under the bankruptcy or  
    insolvency laws or upon any appointment of a receiver for all or any portion of  
    the City's business, or the assignment of all or substantially all of the assets  
    of the City for the benefit of creditors (each, a "Material Financial Event").  
    The parties agree that this Agreement constitutes a financial accommodation by  
    Ticketmaster to the City as such term is utilized in 11 U.S.C. section 365. If  
    at any time, the account balance is not sufficient to pay for anticipated  
    refunds, the City shall deliver the amount of such deficiency ("Deficiency  
    Amount") to Ticketmaster no later than twenty-four (24) hours after notice by  
    Ticketmaster to the City. Ticketmaster shall have the right to setoff any  
    Deficiency Amount against any amounts held by Ticketmaster on behalf of the  
    City.  In the event of any Material Financial Event or in the event the City has  
    not paid any Deficiency Amount when due, Ticketmaster shall have the option to  
    require the City to provide additional security to Ticketmaster of a type (e.g.  
    letter of credit, guaranty or performance bond) and in an amount as requested by  
    Ticketmaster in its sole discretion, which the City shall provide to  
    Ticketmaster within five (5) business days after Ticketmaster's request.  
  
      (e)  The City's auditor and the Washington State auditors or their designee(s)  
    shall be entitled to inspect and audit from time to time as deemed necessary  
    during the Term of this Agreement and for three (3) years after the expiration  
    of earlier termination thereof, at any and all reasonable times in King County,  
    Washington, or at such other reasonable location as such official selects, all  
    reasonably pertinent books and records of Ticketmaster and, if reasonably  
    possible, any of its subcontractors in connection with or related to  
    Ticketmaster's services under this Agreement to verify the accuracy of  
    accounting records and to determine compliance with the provisions of this  
    Agreement.  Ticketmaster and, if reasonably possible, each of its subcontractors  
    shall also supply the City with, or permit such auditor's representative(s) to  
    make a copy of, any such books and records and portions thereof, upon request.  
    Ticketmaster shall ensure that such inspection, audit and copying right of the  
    City and Washington State is a condition of every subcontract, agreement or  
    other arrangement under which any other person or entity is permitted to perform  
    work related to Ticketmaster's services under this Agreement.  The provisions of  
    this section shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this  
    Agreement for a period of three (3) years after the expiration of earlier  
    termination thereof.  
  
      (f)  In addition to the audit and sales reports required by Section 10(g),  
    Ticketmaster shall furnish back-up reports with the quarterly interest payments  
    specified in Section 5(d), detailing interest earnings for McCaw Hall events  
    separate from other Seattle Center events.  Monthly payments of royalties earned  
    shall be accompanied by details of event-by-event royalty earnings.  
  
      (g)  Ticketmaster will provide the City with an annual report regarding the  
    number, type and resolution of customer complaints received by Ticketmaster  
    which are then escalated to Ticketmaster Management personnel during the  
    calendar year in regard to Ticketmaster's provision of ticketing services for  
    events covered by this Agreement.  Seattle Center will forward the report to the  
    City Council's Parks, Education and Libraries Committee, or such committee's  
    functional successor, by the end of the first quarter of each year for the  
    preceding calendar year.  
  
    22.  Ticketmaster's Representations and Warranties.  
  
    Ticketmaster represents and warrants to the City that:  
  
      (a)  Ticketmaster owns and has title to the Hardware and has the right to use  
    the Software in performing its obligations under this Agreement;  
  
      (b)  The Hardware and Software will perform, and operation of the TM System,  
    including all repair and service responsibilities will be undertaken, in a  
    manner adequate for the performance of Ticketmaster's ticketing obligations  
    under this Agreement; provided, however, that such warranties do not extend or  
    become applicable with respect to any delays, stoppages or malfunctions which  
    are caused by the acts of the City or by events or causes beyond, the reasonable  
    control of Ticketmaster;  
  
      (c)  This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered on behalf  
    of Ticketmaster and constitutes the valid, legal and binding agreement of  
    Ticketmaster, enforceable in accordance with its terms; and  
  
      (d)  All implied warranties existing by operation of law, including  
    specifically any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a  
    particular purpose, are expressly disclaimed and negated by the express  
    warranties provided herein.  
  
    23.  Ticketmaster's Default  
  
      (a)  The occurrence of any of the following events for a continuous period of  
    20 days (except for subsection (a)(i) below which shall be for a continuous  
    period of ten (10) days) after Ticketmaster receives written notice thereof and  
    fails to cure the same shall constitute an Event of Default hereunder and, at  
    the City's option, operate to terminate this Agreement and Ticketmaster's right  
    to effect sales of Tickets:  
  
        (i)  Ticketmaster's nonpayment of any sums required to be remitted to the  
    City hereunder when due;  
  
        (ii)  Ticketmaster's default in any other material term, covenant or  
    condition of this Agreement, or Ticketmaster's breach of any material  
    representation or warranty contained herein;  
  
        (iii)  any affirmative act of insolvency by Ticketmaster, whether voluntary  
    or involuntary, or the filing by Ticketmaster, or by any third person against  
    Ticketmaster, of any petition or action under any bankruptcy, reorganization,  
    insolvency or moratorium law or any other law or laws for the relief of, or  
    relating to, debtors; provided, however, that no such act shall constitute an  
    Event of Default unless and until Ticketmaster fails or acknowledges its  
    inability to meet its obligations to the City under the terms of this Agreement;  
    and  
  
        (iv)  Ticketmaster's exposure of the Hardware or Software or any material  
    portion thereof to any levy, seizure, assignment or sale for, or by, a creditor  
    or governmental agency.  
  
      (b)  If an Event of Default occurs, Ticketmaster shall, without demand,  
    forthwith pay to the City all amounts due and owing pursuant hereto, and the  
    City may:  
  
        (i)  terminate this Agreement in whole or in part; and  
  
        (ii)  require Ticketmaster to remove all Hardware from the Facilities, the  
    Box Offices, the McCaw Hall Selling Office, if applicable, and the Seattle  
    Center Administration area; and  
  
        (iii)  obtain injunctive relief for any breach of Ticketmaster's covenants  
    contained in this Section.  
  
    No remedy referred to in this Section 23 is intended to be exclusive, but each  
    shall be cumulative and in addition to any other remedy available to the at law  
    or in equity, each and all of which are subject to the limitation contained in  
    Section 9 above.  
  
    24.  City's Representations and Warranties.  The City represents and warrants to  
    Ticketmaster and, if requested by Ticketmaster, will provide an opinion of  
    counsel and other supporting documents to the effect that:  
  
      (a)  the City is a municipal corporation of the State of Washington and is  
    authorized by the Constitution and laws of the State of Washington to enter into  
    and perform this Agreement;  
  
      (b)  this Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered on behalf  
    of the City and constitutes the valid, legal and binding agreement of the City,  
    enforceable in accordance with its terms;  
  
      (c)  the entering into and performance of this Agreement will not violate any  
    judgment, order, law or regulation applicable to the City or result in any  
    breach of, constitute a default under, or result in the creation of any lien,  
    charge, security interest or other encumbrance upon any assets of the City or  
    upon the Hardware or Software pursuant to, any instrument to which the City is a  
    party or by which it or its assets may be bound; and  
  
      (d)  the City is the sole and exclusive owner and operator of the Facilities.  
  
    25.  City's Default.  
  
      (a)  The occurrence of any of the following events for a continuous period of  
    20 days (except for subsection (b)(i) below which shall be for a continuous  
    period of ten (10) days) after the City receives written notice thereof and  
    fails to cure the same shall, at Ticketmaster's option, constitute an Event of  
    Default hereunder and operate to terminate this Agreement and the City's right  
    to use the TM System and its possession of the Hardware and Software:  
  
        (i)  the nonpayment by the City of any sum required to be paid by the City  
    hereunder;  
  
        (ii)  the default by the City of any other material term, covenant or  
    condition of this Agreement, or breach by the City of any material  
    representation or warranty of the City contained herein;  
  
      (b)  Upon the happening of any of the above Events of Default (i) the City  
    shall, without demand, forthwith pay to Ticketmaster all amounts due and owing  
    pursuant hereto, and (ii) Ticketmaster may, without notice to or demand upon the  
    City:  
  
        (i)  disconnect all Hardware, terminate access to the Software and related  
    services from the central computer facility to the Facilities, the Box Offices,  
    the McCaw Hall Selling Office, if applicable, and/or all Outlets, and/or  
    terminate the provision of ticketing services hereunder;  
  
        (ii)  take immediate possession of the Hardware wherever the same may be  
    located without demand, notice or court order;  
  
        (iii)  obtain injunctive relief for any breach of the City's covenants  
    contained in this Section; and  
  
        (iv)  terminate this Agreement.  
  
    No remedy referred to in this Section 25 is intended to be exclusive, but each  
    shall be cumulative and in addition to any other remedy above or otherwise  
    available to Ticketmaster at law or in equity  
  
    26.  Loss and Damage.  Ticketmaster hereby assumes and shall bear the entire  
    risk of loss and damage to the Hardware from any and every cause whatsoever from  
    the date of installation at the Box Offices, the McCaw Hall Selling Office and  
    Seattle Center Administration area until removal thereof following the  
    expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement unless caused by the City's  
    sole negligence.  No such loss or damage to the Hardware shall impair any  
    obligation of Ticketmaster under this Agreement.  In the event of loss or damage  
    of any kind to any Hardware, Ticketmaster, at its sole option, shall:  
  
      (a)  repair the same within 30 days of such loss or damage; or  
  
      (b)  replace the same with similar property in good repair, condition and  
    working order within 30 days of the date of such loss or damage.  
  
    27.  Insurance.  Ticketmaster shall, at its own expense, provide and maintain,  
    at all times during the terms hereof, commercial general liability and  
    commercial automobile liability insurance policies.  Ticketmaster shall also, at  
    its own expense, provide and maintain, at all times during the term hereof,  
    workers compensation insurance as required by law.  
  
    Failure of Ticketmaster to fully comply with the insurance requirements of this  
    Agreement will be considered a material breach of Agreement.  
  
    The cost of procuring all insurance shall be the responsibility of Ticketmaster.  
  
      (a)  Required Coverage:  The insurance shall include the following type of  
    primary coverage and minimum dollar limits:  
  
        (i)  Commercial General Liability:  A policy of commercial general liability  
    insurance, written on an Insurance Industry Standard occurrence form CG 0001-  
    1001 or equivalent, including all the usual coverage known as:  
  
    Premises/Operations Liability  
    Products/Completed Operations  
    Personal/Advertising Injury  
    Contractual Liability  
    Independent Contractors Liability  
    Stop Gap/Employers Contingent Liability  
  
    The policy shall provide the following minimum coverage:  
  
    Bodily Injury and Property Damage  
    $ 2,000,000  General Aggregate  
    $ 2,000,000  Products & Completed Operations Aggregate  
    $ 1,000,000  Personal & Advertising Injury  
    $ 1,000,000  Each Occurrence  
    $   100,000  Fire Damage Legal  
  
    Stop Gap/Employers Liability  
    $ 1,000,000  Each Accident  
  
        (ii)  Commercial Automobile Liability:  If motor vehicles are on Seattle  
    Center property, or used to conduct business under this agreement, Ticketmaster  
    shall provide commercial automobile liability, including coverage for owned,  
    non-owned, leased or hired vehicles written on an Insurance Industry Standard  
    form CA 00 01 or equivalent, and as specified by Insurance Services Office  
    Symbol 1, designating any auto.  The policy must provide a $1,000,000 minimum  
    liability limit.  
  
        (iii)  Worker's Compensation:  As respects Workers' Compensation insurance  
    in the State of Washington, Ticketmaster shall secure its liability for  
    industrial injury to its employees in accordance with the provisions of Title 51  
    of the Revised Code of Washington.  Ticketmaster shall be responsible for  
    Workers' Compensation Insurance provisions for any Sub-contractor or Sub-  
    concessionaire who provides services under this Agreement  
  
      (b)  Conditions:  The insurance policy or policies, endorsements thereto, and  
    subsequent renewals shall be subject to approval by the City Risk Manager as to  
    company, form and coverage.  The insurance company shall be:  
  
    Rated A- or higher in the current A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide  
  
    Licensed to do business in the State of Washington, or  
  
    Be legally filed and stamped as a surplus line by a Washington broker  
  
    Be primary as respects the City, and any other insurance maintained by the City  
    shall be excess and not contributing insurance  
  
    Be maintained in full force and effect through the Event dates  
  
    Name City of Seattle as an additional insured for the Commercial General  
    Liability policy only, as evidenced by a CG2026 Additional Insured Endorsement,  
    or equivalent, signed, dated, and bearing the policy number.  
  
    Include a provision, whether by endorsement or otherwise, indicating that,  
    except with respect to the limits of insurance and any rights or duties  
    specifically assigned to the first named insured, the insurance shall apply:  
  
    As if each party insured thereunder, whether as a named insured, additional  
    named insured, or additional insured, were the only party insured by such  
    policy, and separately to each insured against whom a claim is made or a suit is  
    brought.  
  
      (c)  Evidence of Insurance:  Ticketmaster shall provide a Broker Opinion  
    Letter, in a form acceptable to the City and Certificates of Insurance (ACORD  
    forms) as evidence of insurance.  
  
    28.  Hardware Protocol.  Except as may be necessary to prevent damage to or  
    destruction of the Hardware, the City will not move the Hardware nor permit such  
    Hardware to be moved from installed locations without Ticketmaster's consent,  
    which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.  The City shall give  
    Ticketmaster prompt written notice of any attachment or other judicial process  
    of which it becomes aware that affects any item of Hardware.  
  
    29.  Designation of Ownership.  If, at any time during the Term hereof  
    Ticketmaster supplies the City with labels, plates or other markings stating  
    that Ticketmaster owns the Hardware, the City shall affix and keep the same in a  
    prominent place on the Hardware.  
  
    30.  Use.  No persons, other than the authorized employees of Ticketmaster,  
    shall be permitted to operate the Hardware or Software, other than an authorized  
    employee of the City approved by Ticketmaster with respect to Hardware located  
    in the Seattle Center Administration area in connection with Attractions.  
    Except as provided in Section 10, the City shall restrict access to those  
    portions of the Facilities in which the Hardware and Software are located to  
    authorized employees of the City and Ticketmaster only; provided, however, that  
    authorized staff and employees of Pacific Northwest Ballet and Seattle Opera may  
    have access to and operate that equipment identified on Exhibit I under the  
    "McCaw Hall" heading unless specifically identified as for Ticketmaster's user  
    only.  Neither the City, nor its employees, agents, servants or representatives,  
    shall alter, modify, copy or add to the Hardware or Software without  
    Ticketmaster's prior written consent.  
  
    31.  Surrender of Hardware.  Upon the expiration or termination of this  
    Agreement, the City shall allow Ticketmaster access to the Facilities, the Box  
    Offices, McCaw Hall Selling Office and the Seattle Center Administration area  
    for the purpose of removing the Hardware and Software.  
  
    32.  Assignment and Sublease.  Neither party shall assign, transfer, sublease,  
    pledge or hypothecate its rights in this Agreement without the written consent  
    of the other party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, except in  
    the event of an assignment by Ticketmaster to any parent, subsidiary, or  
    affiliate, in which event no such consent shall be required.  Any assignment,  
    transfer, sublease, pledge or hypothecation for which consent is required hereby  
    and which is made without such consent shall be void.  
  
    33.  Indemnity.  Ticketmaster does hereby release and shall defend, indemnify,  
    and hold the City and its employees and agents harmless from all losses,  
    liabilities, claims, costs (including attorneys' fees), actions or damages of  
    any sort whatsoever arising out of Ticketmaster's performance of the services  
    contemplated by this Agreement to the extent attributable to the negligent acts  
    or omissions, willful misconduct or breach of this Agreement by Ticketmaster,  
    its servants, agents, and employees. In furtherance of these obligations, and  
    only with respect to the City, its employees and agents, Ticketmaster waives any  
    immunity it may have or limitation on the amount or type of damages imposed  
    under any industrial insurance, worker's compensation, disability, employee  
    benefit or similar laws.  Ticketmaster acknowledges that the foregoing waiver of  
    immunity was mutually negotiated and agrees that the indemnification provided  
    for in this section shall survive any termination or expiration of this  
    Agreement.  
  
    34.  No Joint Venture.  The relationship of Ticketmaster and the City hereunder  
    shall in no way be construed to create a joint venture or partnership, or to  
    constitute Ticketmaster as an agent or employee of the City for any purpose  
    other than as set forth herein.  
  
    35.  Restrictive Covenant.  Ticketmaster represents and the City acknowledges  
    that the TM System, including the Hardware and Software associated with the TM  
    System, represents a valuable, special and unique asset of Ticketmaster.  The  
    City agrees that it will not, during or after the Term of this Agreement,  
    disclose any information, design specifications, programs, listings,  
    documentation or other supporting or related materials or information of any  
    nature or description whatsoever relating to the TM System, the Hardware or the  
    Software, or applications, adaptations and modifications thereof, whether now  
    existing or developed in the future, to any person, firm, corporation,  
    association or entity for any reason or purpose whatsoever; provided, however,  
    that this covenant shall not apply with respect to any information which becomes  
    a matter of general knowledge within the public domain or if the City is  
    obligated to disclose the same by reason of any court order, statute, rule or  
    regulation applicable to the conduct of its business. The expiration or  
    termination of this Agreement by either party shall not terminate the continuing  
    confidentiality obligations imposed on the City by this Section.  
  
    36.  City's Agreements.  No agreement between the City and any third party shall  
    contain any provision inconsistent with any provision of this Agreement.  
  
    37.  Compliance with Law.  
  
      (a) General.  Ticketmaster and the City shall comply with all applicable laws  
    of the United States and the State of Washington, the Charter and ordinances of  
    The City of Seattle, rules and regulations of the Seattle Center, Fire and  
    Police Departments, and licenses, permits, and any directives issued by any  
    authorized official of any of the same.  
  
      (b) Licenses.  Ticketmaster shall obtain all applicable licenses, permits and  
    authorization required by law to perform its obligations under this Agreement.  
  
    38.  Equal Employment Opportunity and Outreach  
  
      (a)  Ticketmaster shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for  
    employment because of race, religion, creed, age, color, sex, marital status,  
    sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, ancestry, national  
    origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless  
    based upon a bona fide occupational qualification.  Ticketmaster shall take  
    affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees  
    are treated during employment, without regard to their creed, religion, race,  
    age, color, sex, national origin, marital status, political ideology, ancestry,  
    sexual orientation, gender identity, or the presence of any sensory, mental or  
    physical handicap.  Such action shall include, but not be limited to the  
    following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer; recruitment or  
    recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay, or other forms of  
    compensation and selection for training, including apprenticeship.  Ticketmaster  
    shall post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for  
    employment, notices as provided by the City setting forth the provisions of this  
    nondiscrimination clause.  
  
      (b)  Ticketmaster shall furnish to the Director of Finance (or his/her  
    designee), upon request and on such form as may be provided therefor, a report  
    of the affirmative action taken by Ticketmaster in implementing the requirements  
    of this section, and will permit access to Ticketmaster's records of employment,  
    employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records  
    requested by the Director of Finance for the purposes of investigation to  
    determine compliance with the requirements of this section.  
  
      (c)  If, upon investigation, the Director of Finance finds probable cause to  
    believe that Ticketmaster has failed to comply with any of the requirements of  
    this section, Ticketmaster and the Seattle Center Director shall be so notified  
    in writing.  The Seattle Center Director shall give Ticketmaster an opportunity  
    to be heard, after ten calendar days' notice.  If the Seattle Center Director  
    concurs in the findings of the Director of Finance, he/she may suspend the  
    Agreement and/or withhold any funds due or to become due to Ticketmaster,  
    pending compliance by Ticketmaster with the requirements of this section.  
  
      (d)  The City encourages the use of women and minority employees and  
    apprentices on all City contracts and encourages outreach efforts in employment  
    opportunities.  Outreach efforts may include use of targeted solicitation lists,  
    advertisements in publications directed to underrepresented communities,  
    providing student internships or apprentice opportunities, noting Ticketmaster's  
    Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) policy in solicitations, emphasizing EEO and  
    outreach policies within the company, and using the services of available  
    minority community and public organizations to perform outreach.  
  
      (e)  Upon request by the Department of Finance, Ticketmaster shall submit EEO  
    Reports in the form specified by the City, detailing actual employment data for  
    Ticketmaster and for any and all subcontractor(s) utilized for the Work.  
  
      (f)  Ticketmaster, by executing this Agreement, is affirming that Ticketmaster  
    complies with all applicable federal, state, and local non-discrimination laws,  
    particularly the requirements of SMC Ch. 20.44 as incorporated in this  
    Agreement.  Any violation of the mandatory requirements of the provisions of  
    this section shall be a material breach of Agreement for which Ticketmaster may  
    be subject to damages and sanctions provided for by the Agreement and by  
    applicable law.  
  
      (g)  The foregoing provisions of this section shall be inserted in all  
    subcontracts for the services covered by this Agreement.  
  
    39.  Nondiscrimination in Employee Benefits  
  
      (a)  Ticketmaster shall comply with the requirements of SMC Ch. 20.45 and the  
    Equal Benefits Program Rules implementing such requirements, under which  
    Ticketmaster is obligated to provide the same or equivalent benefits ("equal  
    benefits") to its employees with domestic partners as Ticketmaster provides to  
    its employees with spouses.  At the City's request, Ticketmaster shall provide  
    complete information and verification of Ticketmaster's compliance with SMC Ch.  
    20.45.   Failure to cooperate with such a request shall constitute a material  
    breach of this Agreement.  The equal benefit provisions of SMC Ch. 20.45 do not  
    apply to subcontractors used under this Agreement.  
  
      (b)  Any violation by Ticketmaster of the provisions of SMC Ch. 20.45 shall be  
    a material breach of the Agreement, for which Ticketmaster shall be subject to  
    the remedies thereunder, including but not limited to payment of liquidated  
    damages in the amount of $500 for each calendar day Ticketmaster is in violation  
    of SMC Ch. 20.45 during the Term of the Agreement, termination of the Agreement,  
    disqualification of Ticketmaster from bidding on or being awarded a City  
    contract for a period of up to five (5) years, and/or other remedies  
    specifically provided for in SMC Ch. 20.45 and the Equal Benefits Program Rules  
    promulgated thereunder.  
  
    40.  Efforts to Use Women and Minority Business Enterprises  
  
      (a)  General:  The City encourages the use of Women and Minority Business  
    Enterprises ("WMBEs") as subconsultants and women and minority employees in all  
    City contracts, and encourages outreach efforts to include women and minorities  
    in employment, contracting, and subcontracting opportunities.  
  
    Outreach efforts may include the use of solicitation lists, advertisements in  
    publications directed to minority communities, breaking down total requirements  
    into smaller tasks or quantities where economically feasible, making other  
    useful schedule or requirements modifications that are likely to assist small or  
    WMBE businesses to compete, targeted recruitment efforts, and using the services  
    of available minority community and public organizations to perform outreach.  
  
    Ticketmaster shall ensure that all employees, particularly supervisors, are  
    aware of, and adhere to their obligation to maintain a working environment free  
    from discriminatory conduct, including but not limited to harassment and  
    intimidation of minorities, women, or WMBE businesses.  
  
      (b)  Non-Discrimination:  Ticketmaster shall not create barriers to open and  
    fair opportunities for WMBEs to participate in any City contract and to obtain  
    or compete for contracts and subcontracts as sources of supplies, equipment,  
    construction and services.  
  
      (c)  Record-Keeping:  Ticketmaster shall maintain, for at least 12 months  
    after the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, relevant records  
    and information necessary to document all Consultant solicitations to  
    subconsultants and suppliers, all subconsultant and supplier proposals received,  
    and all subconsultants and suppliers actually utilized under this Agreement.  
    The City shall have the right to inspect and copy such records.  
  
      (d)  Sanctions for Violation: Any violation of the mandatory requirements of  
    the provisions of this Section (subsections (b) and (c)) shall be a material  
    breach of contract for which Ticketmaster may be subject to damages and  
    sanctions provided for by the Agreement and by applicable law.  
  
    41.  Miscellaneous.  
  
      (a)  Intellectual Property/Limited License: Each party shall retain all right,  
    title and interest in and to its respective trademarks, service marks and trade  
    names worldwide ("Intellectual Property") subject to a limited non-exclusive,  
    non-transferable license necessary to perform this Agreement.  Each party grants  
    the other a royalty-free, non-exclusive, non-transferable license, during the  
    Term, within the territory, to include such party's pre-approved Intellectual  
    Property solely in connection with the promotions and marketing contemplated in  
    this Agreement.  Each party shall use the other's Intellectual Property only as  
    provided, and shall not alter the Intellectual Property in any way, nor shall it  
    act or permit action in any way that would impair the rights of owning party in  
    its Intellectual Property.  Each party acknowledges that its use of the other  
    party's Intellectual Property shall not create any right, title or interest in  
    or to such Intellectual Property.  Each party shall have the right to monitor  
    the quality of the other party's use of its Intellectual Property.  
    Additionally, each party shall notify the other promptly in writing of any known  
    infringement of the other's Intellectual Property.  Any references to a party's  
    Intellectual Property shall contain the appropriate trademark, copyright or  
    other legal notice provided from time to time by owning party.  
  
      (b)  Purchaser Data/Use of Opt-Outs:  The City and Ticketmaster will jointly  
    retain rights in the personally identifiable information with respect to persons  
    who actually purchased Tickets to City's Attractions through Ticketmaster  
    (whether by telephone call, outlet or via the Internet) ("Purchaser Data"),  
    subject to the terms hereof.  Ticketmaster will solely retain rights in any  
    other data that is collected by Ticketmaster by any means regardless of whether  
    such data is redundant of Purchaser Data.  Ticketmaster takes seriously its  
    efforts to ensure the privacy rights of ticket purchasers.  The City and  
    Ticketmaster therefore agree to use the Purchaser Data only in compliance with  
    all applicable (United States and foreign) laws and administrative rulings and  
    in accordance with the City's own posted privacy policies. The City and  
    Ticketmaster also agree to include in any e-mail communications that either may  
    make based on the Purchaser Data, a mechanism to provide the recipient with the  
    right to "opt-out" from receiving further communications from the City or  
    Ticketmaster and that the City and Ticketmaster shall honor such opt-out  
    preferences.  
  
      (c)  Disclaimer of Warranty:  Each party expressly disclaims any warranty that  
    the use of its Software, computer systems (including the TM System) or other  
    online services (collectively, "Systems") will be uninterrupted or error free.  
    Except for the express warranties stated in this Agreement, Ticketmaster makes  
    no warranties as to its Systems to be used in performing this Agreement.  
  
    Ticketmaster's Systems are provided to the City on an "AS-IS" basis without  
    warranties of any kind, either express or implied, including without limitation  
    warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose or use with  
    respect to the Internet or use of information in connection with any Systems  
    provided in this Agreement.  Each party acknowledges that electronic  
    communications and databases are subject to errors, tampering and break-ins.  
    While each party agrees to take reasonable security precautions to avoid such  
    occurrences, neither party guarantees nor warrants that such events will not  
    take place.  
  
      (d)  Confidentiality. The parties acknowledge that by reason of their  
    relationship hereunder, Ticketmaster may from time to time disclose information  
    regarding its business, products, software technology, Intellectual Property and  
    other information that is confidential and of substantial value to Ticketmaster,  
    which value would be impaired if such information were disclosed to third  
    parties ("Confidential Information").  
  
    Confidential Information shall not include information which (i) becomes a part  
    of the public domain through no act or omission of the receiving party; (ii) was  
    in the receiving party's lawful possession prior to the disclosure and had not  
    been subject to limitations on disclosure or use, as shown by the receiving  
    party's files existing at the time of disclosure; (iii) is independently  
    developed by the receiving party by persons who have not had access to the  
    Confidential Information of the disclosing party; or (iv) is lawfully disclosed  
    hereafter to the receiving party, without restriction, by a third party who did  
    not acquire the information directly or indirectly from the disclosing party.  
  
    The City agrees that it will not use in any way for the account of any third  
    party, nor disclose to any third party (other than its accountants and  
    attorneys), any information that Ticketmaster reveals to it and which the City  
    knows or should have reasonably known was Confidential Information, except to  
    the extent expressly permitted by this Agreement.  In the event that such  
    disclosure is sought by subpoena, document request, notice of deposition, public  
    disclosure request or other legal proceeding, the City agrees to notify  
    Ticketmaster pursuant to the notices section below, within forty-eight (48)  
    hours after receipt of such legal document, so that Ticketmaster may take all  
    necessary actions to protect its interests.   The City agrees to reasonably  
    cooperate with Ticketmaster in its efforts to obtain a protective order or  
    otherwise prevent disclosure of Confidential Information.  
  
      (e)  Notices.  Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be  
    in writing and conclusively deemed to have been received by a party hereto on  
    the day it is hand-delivered to such party at the address indicated below (or at  
    such other address as such party shall specify to the other party in writing),  
    or, if sent by registered or certified mail, on the third business day after the  
    day on which mailed, addressed to such party at such address:  
  
        (i)  If to Ticketmaster, at Ticketmaster  
             419 Occidental Ave. South, 3rd Floor  
             Seattle, Washington 98104  
             ATTN:  General Manager  
  
             with copies to:  
             Ticketmaster Corporation  
             8800 W. Sunset Blvd.  
             West Hollywood, California 90069  
             ATTN: Executive Vice-President Western Region and General Counsel  
  
        (ii) If to the City, at  
             Seattle Center Event Management Division  
             Room 209, Center House  
             Seattle Center  
             305 Harrison Street  
             Seattle, Washington 98109  
             ATTN:  Carl Weinstein  
  
      (f)  Effect of Waiver: No delay in or failure to exercise any right or remedy  
    in favor of Ticketmaster or the City upon any breach or default hereunder shall  
    impair any such right or remedy or be construed to be a waiver of any such  
    breach or default; nor shall any waiver of any single breach or default be  
    deemed a waiver of any other breach or default theretofore or thereafter  
    occurring.  Any waiver, permit, consent, or approval on the part of Ticketmaster  
    or the City of any breach or default under this Agreement, or of any provision  
    or condition hereof, must be made in writing and shall be effective only to the  
    extent specifically set forth in such writing.  
  
      (g)  Attorneys' Fees: In the event of any action at law or suit in equity in  
    relation to this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to a  
    reasonable sum for its attorneys' fees.  
  
      (h)  Applicable Law: This Agreement shall be interpreted and governed by the  
    laws of the State of Washington, without reference to conflict of law  
    principles.  Each of the parties hereto agrees that the state courts, and the  
    United States federal courts, that are located in the State of Washington shall  
    each have subject matter jurisdiction hereunder and personal jurisdiction over  
    each of the parties hereto.  Each such party hereby consents thereto, and hereby  
    waives any right they may have to assert the doctrine of forum non conveniens or  
    to object to venue to the extent that any proceeding is conducted in accordance  
    with the foregoing provision.  
  
      (i)  Additional Documents: Each of the parties hereto agrees to execute and  
    deliver from time to time such additional and further documents and instruments  
    as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to carry out the intents and  
    purposes of this Agreement.  
  
      (j)  Counterparts:  This Agreement may be executed in one or more  
    counterparts, all of which shall be deemed to be an original document.  
  
      (k)  Severability:  If any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement  
    shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any  
    respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any  
    other provision of this Agreement, and this Agreement shall be construed as if  
    such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained  
    herein.  Further, if any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be  
    unenforceable by virtue of its scope, but may be made enforceable by a  
    limitation thereof, such provision shall be deemed to be amended to the minimum  
    extent necessary to render it enforceable under the laws of the jurisdiction in  
    which enforcement is sought.  
  
      (l) Binding Effect: The terms, conditions, provisions and undertakings of this  
    Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each of the parties  
    hereto and their respective successors and assigns.  
  
      (m) Amendments:  Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and  
    executed by the parties hereto.  
  
      (n) Entire Agreement: This Agreement and the Exhibits, Tables and Schedules  
    attached hereto constitute the sole agreement of the parties relating to the  
    matters covered hereby and supersedes any and all existing agreements, promises  
    or representations by the parties with respect to the subject matter covered  
    herein.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Ticketmaster and the City have caused this Agreement to be  
    executed this ____ day of _____, 2003.  
  
    TICKETMASTER L.L.C.                THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
    By: ________________________       By: _________________________  
    Title: ________________________    Title: ________________________  
    ta  
  
    EXHIBIT A -- KEYARENA BOX OFFICE (West Court Building)  
  
    EXHIBIT A-1 -- KEYARENA BOX OFFICE (Southeast Ticket Office)  
  
    EXHIBIT B -- McCAW HALL SELLING OFFICE  
  
    EXHIBIT C -- THOMAS STREET KIOSK  
  
    EXHIBIT D  
  
    HARDWARE SCHEDULE  
  
    Equipment    Quantity  
  
    Center House Comm Room  
  
    Adtran DSU (communication device)  2  
  
    Communication Cabinet    1  
  
    Data Communication Patch Panel  3  
  
    Cabling    1  
  
    Data Communication Line Driver  1  
  
    Penril Modem for Mercer Arts  1  
  
    TM Mux for data to KeyArena  1  
  
    40 Port TM Cube Comm Device  1  
  
    16 Channel Modem Rack    1  
  
    Seattle Center Administrative Area  
  
    Data Comm Line Driver    1  
  
    TM Video Display Terminal    1  
  
    Report Printer    1  
  
    KeyArena  LB12  
  
    Adtran DSU    1  
  
    TM Mux    1  
  
    KeyArena East Box Office  
  
    16 Channel TM Network Comm Device  1  
  
    TM Thermal Ticket Printers    12  
  
    TM Video Display Terminals    12  
  
    Report Printer    1  
  
    Credit Card Swipers    10  
  
    KeyArena West Box Office  
  
    16 Channel TM Network Comm Device  1  
  
    TM Thermal Ticket Printers    5  
  
    TM Video Display Terminals    5  
  
    Report Printer    1  
  
    Credit Card Swipers    5  
  
    KeyArena Administration Office - North Tunnel  
  
    16 Channel TM Network Comm Device  1  
  
    TM Thermal Ticket Printer    1  
  
    Report Printer    1  
  
    PC's    2  
  
    Instruction Manuals    2  
  
    5-Port hub                    2  
  
    1604 Router                    1  
  
    Thomas Street Kiosk  
  
    Adtran DSU    1  
  
    8 Port Cube    1  
  
    TM Thermal Printers    2  
  
    TM Video Display Terminals    2  
  
    Mercer Arts Arena  
  
    Penril Modem    1  
  
    8 Channel TM Network Comm Device  1  
  
    TM Thermal Printers    3  
  
    TM Video Display Terminals    3  
  
    Credit Card Swipers    3  
  
    Office Miscellaneous  
  
    Fax Machine    1  
  
    Laser Printer    1  
  
    Cellular Phones    2  
  
    Signage    1  
  
    Safe    1  
  
    Metal Tills    20  
  
    Misc. Furniture    1  
  
    Misc. Supplies    1  
  
    McCaw Hall  
  
    Compaq barcode server    1  
  
    Symbol Access Points    2  
  
    Symbol barcode scanners    7  
  
    Netgear hubs    2  
  
    Cisco Router    1  
  
    Boca ticket printers (for TM use)  6  
  
    Compaq PC's with monitors (for TM use)  6  
  
    Report Printer    1  
  
    Credit Card Swipers    6  
  
      1  Exhibit D to Attachment 1 to Ticketmaster Ordinance  
  
    EXHIBIT E  
  
  
  
      COMPENSATION SCHEDULES  
  
    Attractions with no advance Ticket sales (e.g., trade shows,  
    expositions and high school events) will be assessed the following  
    charges:  
  
              Set-Up Fee:   Waived  
  
             Staffing Fee:   $17.00/hour/person; $150.00/day minimum  
  
           Ticket Printing Fee:   $0.07/Ticket  
  
    CONVENIENCE CHARGES  
  
    Table 1  
  
      Convenience Charge Schedule  
  
    Face Value of      Per Ticket        The City's    Per Ticket  
    Tickets            Convenience Charge   Royalties        Convenience  
                          for Outlets,         Per Ticket    Charge for  
                          Telephones Sales,                     Suite Tickets  
                          Internet Sales                     to the KeyArena  
                                                                 
  
    $0.00 to $5.00        $1.50                $0.00            $0.50  
  
    $5.01 to $10.00       $2.50                $0.00            $0.50  
  
    $10.01 to $15.00      $4.00                $0.60            $0.50  
  
    $15.01 to $20.00      $4.50                $0.90            $0.50  
  
    $20.01 to $30.00      $6.00                $1.63            $0.75  
  
    $30.01 to $40.00      $6.50                $1.79            $1.00  
  
    $40.01 to $50.00      $6.75                $1.89            $1.25  
  
    $50.01 to $60.00      $7.00                $2.05            $1.50  
  
    $60.01 to $70.00      $7.25                $2.10            $1.75  
  
    $70.01 to $80.00      $7.50                $2.10            $2.00  
  
    $80.01 to $90.00      $8.00                $2.15            $2.25  
  
    $90.01 to $100.00     $8.25                $2.15            $2.50  
  
    Over $100.00*         See below            $2.15  
  
    Table 2  
  
  
  
    The City's Royalties for Tickets sold at the Box Offices to events  
    other than Attractions at the Facilities:  
  
    Initial Per Ticket        The City's  
    Convenience Charge         Royalties  
  
            $0.00-$1.50              $0.00  
  
         $1.51 and greater           $0.25  
  
    *Tickets Priced in Excess of $100.00.  Convenience Charges with  
    respect to Tickets priced in excess of $100.00 shall be increased by  
    an amount equal to 2.5% of the Face Value of the Ticket over $100.00,  
    to be rounded up to the nearest $0.25 increment.  Any such increase to  
    Convenience Charges shall not affect the City's Royalties, which will  
    remain at the level for a Ticket priced at $100.00.  By way of  
    example, a $109.00 Ticket sold through Telephone Sales will have a  
    Convenience Charge of $8.25 (i.e., $9.00 excess over $100.00  
    multiplied by 2.5% equals $0.225, which is rounded up to produce an  
    increase of $0.25, which increase shall be added to $8.25 resulting in  
    a total of $8.50).  
  
    Excluded Tenants/Promoters and Attractions.  Convenience Charges  
    for those tenants/Promoters specifically excluded from this Agreement  
    pursuant to Section 2(a), 2(b) and 2(c) of this Agreement shall be  
    determined by the mutual agreement of Ticketmaster and those tenants.  
  
    Box Offices and McCaw Hall Selling Office.  Ticketmaster shall  
    not assess a Convenience Charge with respect to Tickets for  
    Attractions at the Facilities sold at the Box Offices and the McCaw  
    Hall Selling Office.  The City shall have sole discretion as to the  
    amount of the service or other charges, if any, that the City desires  
    to assess customers purchasing Tickets at such locations.  
  
    Staffing Fees  
  
    $17.00/hour/person; four-hour minimum.  
  
      1  Exhibit E to Attachment 1 to Ticketmaster Ordinance  
  
    EXHIBIT F  
  
    CONVENIENCE CHARGES PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE  
  
    Face Value of Tickets   Per Ticket               The City's Royalties  
                             Convenience Charge for      Per Ticket  
                               Outlets, Telephones Sales,  
                               Internet Sales  
  
    $0.00 to $5.00             $1.50                       $0.00  
  
    $5.01 to $10.00            $2.50                       $0.00  
  
    $10.01 to $15.00           $4.00                       $0.60  
  
    $15.01 to $20.00           $4.50                       $0.90  
  
    $20.01 to $30.00           $5.50                       $1.30  
  
    $30.01 to $40.00           $5.75                       $1.30  
  
    $40.01 to $50.00           $6.00                       $1.40  
  
    $50.01 to $60.00           $6.00                       $1.40  
  
    $60.01 to $70.00           $6.25                       $1.45  
  
    $70.01 to $80.00           $6.50                       $1.45  
  
    $80.01 to $90.00           $7.00                       $1.50  
  
    $90.01 to $100.00          $7.25                       $1.50  
  
    Over $100.00                                Mutually determined  
  
      1  Exhibit F to Attachment 1 to Ticketmaster Ordinance  
