* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114684**   
**Ordinance Number: 121263**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Police Department; authorizing an agreement with the L & S Report Service, Inc. for Records Section overtime labor needed to process pending L & S requests for police reports; accepting the money when received; increasing the 2003 Budget of the Police Department by making a reimbursable appropriation; and ratifying and confirming prior acts; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 8, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Drago, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 17, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 2, 2003   
**Committee:** Police, Fire, Court and Technology   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON   
  
**Index Terms:** POLICE-DEPARTMENT, ACCOUNTING  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114684.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114684  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Police Department; authorizing an  
    agreement with the L & S Report Service, Inc. for Records Section  
    overtime labor needed to process pending L & S requests for police  
    reports; accepting the money when received; increasing the 2003  
    Budget of the Police Department by making a reimbursable  
    appropriation; and ratifying and confirming prior acts; all by a  
    three-fourths vote of the City Council.  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Chief of Police or his designee is authorized to  
    execute for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, one or more  
    agreements with the L & S Report Service, Inc. for financial  
    assistance up to the total amount of Twenty Thousand dollars  
    ($20,000) to reimburse the SPD Records Section for overtime labor  
    needed to process pending requests for police reports submitted by L&  
    S. The funds, when received, are hereby accepted and shall be  
    deposited to the credit of the General Subfund to reimburse for the  
    appropriation made in Section 2.  
  
    Section 2. To carry out the purpose of the agreements authorized in  
    Section 1, and contingent upon the execution of those agreements, the  
    appropriation in the 2003 Budget of the Police Department is  
    increased as follows:  
  
    Fund              Department        Budget Control Level     Amount  
  
    General Subfund   Police         Records Section (P8500)      $20,000  
           (00100)  
  
    Unspent funds appropriated by this Section shall carry forward to  
    subsequent fiscal years until they are exhausted or abandoned by  
    ordinance.  
  
      Section 3.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
      Section 4.  The foregoing appropriation is made to meet actual  
    necessary expenditures of the City for which no appropriation has  
    been made due to causes which could not reasonably have been foreseen  
    at the time of the making of the 2003 Budget in accordance with RCW  
    35.32A.060.  
  
    Section 5.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by a three-fourths vote of the City Council the ____ day of  
    _________, 2003, and signed by me in open session in authentication  
    of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    S. Christie  
  
    08/06/03  
  
    OrdL&S.doc  
  
    (Ver.1a)  
