* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114602**   
**Ordinance Number: 121220**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to historic preservation, imposing controls upon the Belltown Cottages, a Landmark designated by the Landmarks Preservation Board under Chapter 25.12 of the Seattle Municipal Code, and adding it to the Table of Historic Landmarks contained in Chapter 25.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 14, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 22, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 21, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 16, 2003   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Arts and Civil Riths   
**Sponsor:** LICATA   
  
**Index Terms:** LANDMARKS, BELLTOWN  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114602.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114602  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to historic preservation, imposing controls upon  
    the Belltown Cottages, a Landmark designated by the Landmarks  
    Preservation Board under Chapter 25.12 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    and adding it to the Table of Historic Landmarks contained in Chapter  
    25.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
    WHEREAS, the Landmarks Ordinance, Chapter 25.12 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code (SMC), establishes a procedure for the designation and  
    preservation of structures and areas having historical, cultural,  
    architectural, engineering or geographic importance; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Landmarks Preservation Board, after a public meeting on  
    January 19, 2000 voted to approve the nomination of the Belltown  
    Cottages at 2512, 2512A and 2516 Elliott Avenue, in Seattle as a  
    Landmark under SMC Chapter 25.12; and  
  
    WHEREAS, after a public meeting on March 15, 2000, the Board voted to  
    approve the designation of the Belltown Cottages and the site as a  
    Landmark under SMC Chapter 25.12; and  
  
    WHEREAS, on October 4, 2000, the Board and the owners of the  
    designated property agreed to controls and incentives; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Board recommends to the City Council approval of controls  
    and incentives; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
      Section 1.  DESIGNATION:  The designation by the Landmarks  
    Preservation Board of the Belltown Cottages, and its site described  
    as:  
  
      Bell and Denny's Addition, Block 5, Lot 3  
  
    as a Landmark based upon satisfaction of the following standards of  
    SMC Section 25.12.350:  
  
      D.  It embodies the distinctive visible characteristics of an  
    architectural style, or period, or of a method of construction;  
  
      F.  Because of its prominence of spatial location, contrasts of  
    siting, age or scale, is an easily identifiable visual feature of its  
    neighborhood or the City and contributes to the distinctive quality or  
    identity of such neighborhood or the City;  
  
    is hereby acknowledged.  
  
      Section 2.  CONTROLS:  The following controls are hereby imposed on  
    the features and characteristics of the Belltown Cottages and its site  
    that were designated by the Board for preservation:  
  
      A.  CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL PROCESS  
  
      1.  A Certificate of Approval, issued by the City of Seattle's  
    Landmarks Preservation Board pursuant to Municipal Code, 25.12, must  
    be obtained, or the time for denying a Certificate of Approval  
    application must have expired, before the owner may make alterations  
    or significant changes to:  
  
      a.  The exteriors of the buildings, the interiors of the structures  
    at 2512 and 2512A Elliott Avenue, excluding the garage addition to the  
    structure at 2512 Elliott Avenue and the shed addition to the  
    structure at 2516 Elliott Avenue.  
  
      b.  The site.  
  
      2.  A Certificate of Approval is not required for any in-kind  
    maintenance or repairs of the features listed in subsection 1.  
  
      B.  ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW  
  
      1.  Administrative review and approval may be provided for the items  
    listed in subsection 3 according to the following procedures.  The  
    Owner shall submit to the City Historic Preservation Officer (CHPO) a  
    written request for these alterations, including applicable drawings  
    and/or specifications.  If the CHPO, upon examination of submitted  
    plans and specifications, determines that such alterations are  
    consistent with the purposes of SMC 25.12 the alterations shall be  
    approved without the need for any further action by the Board.  If the  
    CHPO disapproves such alterations, the Owner may submit revised  
    materials to the CHPO, or submit in accordance with the Certificate of  
    Approval process set forth in SMC 25.12.  
  
      2.  The CHPO shall submit his or her written decision on the Owner's  
    submittal to the Owner.  Failure of the CHPO to approve or disapprove  
    the request shall constitute approval of the request.  
  
      3.  Administrative review is available for the following:  
  
      For the designated areas of the buildings, the addition or  
    elimination of duct conduits, HVAC vents, grilles, fire escapes,  
    pipes, and other similar wiring or mechanical elements necessary for  
    the normal operation of the buildings.  
  
      Section 3.  INCENTIVES  
  
    A.  Seattle Municipal Code Title 23 provides for authorization of uses  
    in a designated Landmark that are not normally permitted in a  
    particular zoning classification by means of an administrative  
    conditional use.  
  
      B.  The Building and Energy Codes provide for exceptions on an  
    application basis.  
  
      C.  Historic Preservation Special Tax Valuation (Chapter 84.26 RCW)  
    is available to all Seattle landmarks subject to controls imposed by  
    designation ordinance, upon application.  
  
      Section 4.  Enforcement of this Ordinance and penalties for its  
    violation shall be as provided in SMC 25.12.910.  
  
      Section 5.  The Belltown Cottages and the site are hereby added to  
    the Table of Historical Landmarks contained in SMC Chapter 25.32.  
  
      Section 6.  The City Clerk is directed to record this ordinance with  
    the King County Director of Records and Elections, deliver two copies  
    to the City Historic Preservation Officer, and deliver one copy to the  
    Director of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use.  
  
      Section 7.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2003,  
    and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      President     of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    Elizabeth Chave/JLB  
  
    Belltown Cottages Ord.doc  
  
    May 19, 2003  
  
    V # 1  
