* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114664**   
**Ordinance Number: 121290**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE authorizing execution of a ten year lease of the Roger Dahl Rifle Training Range at West Seattle Stadium with the West Seattle Sportsman's Club.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 29, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 10, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 9, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 2, 2003   
**Committee:** Parks, Education and Libraries   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK   
  
**Index Terms:** RECREATIONAL-FACILITIES, LEASES, PARKS-DEPARTMENT, WEST-SEATTLE, ARENAS-AND-STADIUMS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114664.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114664  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE authorizing execution of a ten year lease of the Roger  
    Dahl Rifle Training Range at West Seattle Stadium with the West  
    Seattle Sportsman's Club.  
  
    WHEREAS, the West Seattle Sportsman's Club (the "Club") currently  
    occupies the City-owned facility commonly known as the Roger Dahl  
    Rifle Training Range (the "facility"), which is located at the  
    Department of Parks and Recreation's West Seattle Stadium; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Club participated in the construction of the Roger Dahl  
    Rifle Training Range in 1961 and has continuously occupied and  
    maintained the facility at its own cost and expense since that time;  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Club provides valuable educational programs to Seattle's  
    citizens in partnership with state agencies; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City of Seattle's Department of Parks and Recreation  
    recognizes the Club's many public contributions, including its  
    delivery of  firearm safety education and training classes; and  
  
    WHEREAS, as part of the terms of its lease with the City, the Club  
    has agreed to continue providing  public access, and programming and  
    educational programs to benefit Seattle's citizens; and  
  
    WHEREAS, in recognition of such public benefit, the Superintendent of  
    Parks and Recreation has determined that the assessment of a nominal  
    annual rent of $200 is appropriate for the term of this lease; and  
  
    WHEREAS, another public benefit to this lease is that it meets a  
    requirement that will allow the Club to obtain a $37,394 Interagency  
    Committee for Outdoor Recreation (IAC) grant that will match the  
    Club's financial pledge of $37,394 for HVAC improvements to the  
    facility;   NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized  
    to enter into a 10-year lease ( attached substantially in its form  
    hereto as Attachment 1), with the West Seattle Sportsman's Club (the  
    "Club"), for the occupancy and use of the facility known as the Roger  
    Dahl Rifle Training Range at West Seattle Stadium.  
  
    Section 2.  In recognition of the public benefits provided by the  
    public access, programming, and education classes provided by the  
    West Seattle Sportsman's Club, the Superintendent of Parks and  
    Recreation has determined that it is appropriate to charge the Club a  
    nominal annual rent of $200 for the term of the proposed lease.  
  
    Section 3.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachment 1:  Lease for the Roger Dahl Rifle Training Range at West  
    Seattle Stadium  
  
    Barry Firth/CN  
  
    DAHLord.doc  
  
    June 27, 2003  
  
    version #2  
  
    Attachment 1:  Lease for the Roger Dahl Rifle Training Range at West  
    Seattle Stadium  
  
    LEASE AGREEMENT  
  
    I.  PARTIES:  This Lease Agreement is entered into by The CITY OF  
    SEATTLE, a municipal corporation, acting through its DEPARTMENT OF  
    PARKS AND RECREATION ("Department"), and The WEST SEATTLE SPORTSMAN'S  
    CLUB, INC. a Washington non-profit corporation as Lessee ("Lessee").  
  
    II.  PREMISES:  The City hereby leases to the Lessee and the Lessee  
    hereby leases from the City that property commonly known as the Roger  
    Dahl Rifle Training Range located in the West Seattle Stadium,  
    Seattle, Washington., shown in the diagram attached as Exhibit A and  
    legally described in Exhibit B ("Premises"), all subject to the terms  
    and conditions of this Lease.  
  
    III.    USE/PURPOSE:  The Premises may be used only for the following  
    uses and purposes:  
  
    3.1  Purposes Authorized.  The Department hereby authorizes the  
    Lessee to use the Premises as a limited use (as further defined in  
    this Agreement) rifle and pistol target shooting range, for  
    instruction, training, tournaments, and for meetings related to those  
    functions.  All such functions shall be open to the public.  The  
    Lessee shall not use or make available for use the Premises for any  
    other purpose without the prior written consent of the Department.  
    The reloading or manufacture or remanufacture of ammunition and the  
    storing of supplies including loaders, sizers, powder and every other  
    component used in the reloading of ammunition within the Premises, is  
    expressly prohibited.  
  
    3.2  Use Restricted.  The Department reserves the right to review and  
    approve the types of firearms which may be present or used on the  
    Premises, including the management practices, programs, and  
    associated fees charged by Lessee.  The Lessee shall not permit the  
    discharge of any firearm which does not conform as a firearm approved  
    by the Department.  The Department further reserves the right to  
    approve the hours of operation of the facility as a target range and  
    Lessee shall submit for approval a schedule of operations.  
  
    3.3  Improvement to Premises.  The Lessee accepts the Premises in "as  
    is" condition.  Lessee shall make no improvement or modification to  
    the Premises, without the written consent of the Department.  
  
    3.4  Closure.  The Department reserves the right to close the  
    Premises, or any portion thereof for making repairs or improvements,  
    Provided, the Department shall give the Lessee reasonable notice of  
    such closure.  The Department may close the Premises or any portion  
    of the Premises without notice, in case of emergency.  
  
    3.5  Premises Supervision.  Lessee shall at all times staff the  
    Premises with appropriately trained personnel.  At no time will the  
    target shooting range be used without the presence of appropriately  
    certified range control personnel.  Lessee shall at all time adhere  
    to the Range Safety and Operations Rules attached hereto as Exhibit  
    E.  Lessee shall be solely responsible for the safe operation of the  
    target shooting range and shall not assign, let or permit any other  
    entity, individual or organization to undertake that function without  
    the written consent of the Department.  
  
    IV. USE OF COMMON AREAS & PUBLIC SPACES:  Subject to the City's  
    operational requirements, the Lessee shall have access to and non-  
    exclusive use of common areas and public spaces, which shall include  
    parking areas and walkways adjacent to the Premises.  
  
    V. TERM:  The term of this Lease commences upon execution by the  
    Superintendent of the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation and  
    ends on midnight July 31, 2013, unless it is terminated earlier as  
    provided in this Agreement.  At the end of the term, this lease may  
    be extended on a month to month basis by mutual agreement of the City  
    and the Lessee, not to exceed six months.  
  
    VI. RENT:  In consideration of this Lease, the Lessee shall pay to  
    the City, the following rent:  $200 per year and the value of the  
    public benefits provided and noted in Paragraph 3.1 above.  Rent  
    shall be paid no later than November of each year during the term of  
    this lease.   The lessee shall also be responsible for paying all  
    required state leasehold tax and any applicable taxes that are  
    necessary and required.  
  
    VII. PARKING:  Public parking is available adjacent to the Premises,  
    however, it is not dedicated to the exclusive use of any facility,  
    including the Premises, and Lessee recognizes that from time-to-time,  
    parking immediately adjacent to the Premises may not be available due  
    to other public uses around the site.  
  
    VIII. UTILITIES AND SERVICES:  The Department shall provide general  
    exterior maintenance to the building in which the Premises and the  
    grounds adjacent thereto.  The Lessee shall maintain the Premises in  
    a neat and business-like condition, at Lessee's sole expense.  There  
    are basic utilities available at the Premises.  Lessee has  
    investigated the same and accepts them in as is condition.  Neither  
    mail delivery nor communications services shall be provided by the  
    City.  
  
    IX. HOURS OF OPERATION, ACCESS TO THE PREMISES:  The Lessee shall  
    have access to the Premises and common areas of the Premises between  
    the hours of 8:00 am and 10:00 pm, Monday through Sunday.  Lessee  
    shall restrict use of the shooting range to the approved scheduled  
    operating hours.  
  
    X.  AGREEMENT CONTENTS:  This Lease and the General Terms and  
    Conditions subjoined, Exhibit A, Exhibit B, Exhibit C, Exhibit D and  
    Exhibit E, hereto attached. It embodies the entire agreement of the  
    parties hereto.  There are no other understandings or agreements,  
    written or oral, between the parties relating to the subject matter  
    of this Lease.  
  
    XI.  INSURANCE.  Lessee shall at its own expense obtain and maintain  
    the insurance coverage identified in this section.  
  
    11.1  Policies and Coverage.  
  
    (a) Commercial General Liability Insurance written on an occurrence  
    form, (CG 00 01), including all the usual coverages the Club has  
    exposure to known as:  
  
    Premises/Operations Liability  
  
    Products/Completed Operations  
  
    Personal/Advertising Injury  
  
    Contractual Liability  
  
    Employers Liability (Stop Gap)  
  
    In the following coverage amounts:  
  
    Bodily Injury and Property Damage:  
  
    $2,000,000.00 General Aggregate  
  
    $2,000,000.00 Products/Completed Operations Aggregate  
  
    $2,000,000.00 Personal & Advertising Injury  
  
    $2,000,000.00 Each Occurrence  
  
    $   100,000.00 Fire Damage Legal  
  
    (b)  Business Automobile Liability, including coverage for owned,  
    non-owned, leased or hired vehicles.  
  
    Bodily Injury and Property Damage - $ 1,000,000 per person,  
    $1,000,000 per accident.  
  
    (c)  Worker's Compensation to comply with all applicable worker's  
    compensation, occupational disease, and occupational health and  
    safety laws, statutes, and regulations to the fullest extent  
    applicable.  Such worker's compensation and occupational disease  
    requirements shall include coverage for all employees suffering  
    bodily injury (including death) by accident or disease that arises  
    out of or in the connection with the performance of this Agreement.  
  
    (d)  Increases in Coverage's and Limits.  Coverage and/or limits  
    shall be altered or increased as necessary, to reflect type of or  
    exposure to risk.  Said insurance policy(ies) and subsequent renewals  
    must be maintained in full force and effect, at no expense to the  
    City, throughout the term hereof.  
  
    (e) Said policy(ies) shall (1) be issued by a company rated A-VII or  
    higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do  
    business in the State of Washington or be issued as a surplus line by  
    a Washington Surplus lines broker; (2) must be otherwise subject to  
    approval by the City's Risk Manager as to company, form and coverage;  
    (3) shall be primary to all other insurance City, itself, may secure;  
    and (4) must protect City from any and all claims and risks in  
    connection with any activity performed by or for the Club under this  
    Agreement, or any use and occupancy of the Premises authorized by  
    this Agreement.  
  
    11.2  Evidence of Insurance.  
  
    The following documents must be provided to the Department prior to  
    Lessee occupying the Premises:  
  
    (a)  A copy of the policy's declarations pages, showing the policy  
    effective dates, limits of liability and the Schedule of Forms and  
    Endorsements.  
  
    (b)  A copy of the endorsement naming The City of Seattle as an  
    Additional Insured, showing the policy number and signed by an  
    authorized representative, on Form CG2026 (ISO) or comparable.  
  
    (c)  A copy of the "Endorsements Form" to the policy which shows  
    endorsements issued on the policy, and which include any company-  
    specific or manuscript endorsements.  
  
    (d)  A policy or an endorsement stating that the coverage's provided  
    by this policy to the City or any other named insured shall not be  
    terminated, reduced or otherwise materially changed without providing  
    at least forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City at the  
    address noted herein.  
  
    (e)  A "separation of insureds" or "severability of interests" clause  
    indicating essentially that except with respect to the limits of  
    insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the  
    first named insured, such insurance applies as if each named insured  
    were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against  
    whom claim is made or suit is brought.  
  
    The evidence of insurance shall be delivered as follows:  
  
    The City of Seattle  
  
    Department of Parks & Recreation  
  
    Barry Firth, Concessions Coordinator  
  
    Contract & Business Resources Office  
  
    P.O. Box 3443  
  
    Seattle, WA 98114  
  
    or to such other official(s) and address(es) as Department may  
    hereafter specify, at the following times:  
  
    11.4  In the event of any loss, damage or casualty, the parties to  
    this Agreement shall proceed cooperatively to settle the loss and  
    collect the proceeds of such insurance, which proceeds shall be held  
    in trust by Department (including interest earned by Department on  
    such proceeds) for use in accordance with the terms of this  
    Agreement.  The parties recognize that such insurance proceeds shall  
    be used for the purpose of restoring the Premises and improvements  
    made thereto that have been damaged by the casualty to their former  
    condition and usability or replacement of the same with equivalent or  
    more suitable improvements.  
  
    11.5  The City and the Lessee waive all subrogation rights against  
    each other, any contractors, architect, architects consultants,  
    service providers, and all of their respective subcontractors, for  
    damages caused by fire or other perils to the extent covered by  
    property insurance obtained pursuant to this article or other  
    property insurance applicable to the Premises, except such rights as  
    they have to proceeds of such insurance held by City as fiduciary.  
    This waiver of subrogation shall be effective to a person or entity  
    even though that person or entity would otherwise have a duty of  
    indemnification, contractual or otherwise, whether or not the person  
    or entity paid the insurance premium directly or indirectly, and  
    whether or not the person or entity has an insurable interest in the  
    property damaged.  
  
    11.6  With respect to any third-party claim against or potentially  
    against both the Lessee and the City that results from or arises out  
    of any of any Premises use or the Lessee's operations thereon, the  
    Lessee and the City agree to coordinate their defense of such claims  
    pursuant to this provision.  The parties agree to work together in  
    good faith, and cause their respective counsel to work together in  
    good faith, to coordinate and implement a strategy with respect to  
    the legal defense of any such action, including, without limitation,  
    answers, counterclaims, motions, discovery, settlement, preparation  
    for trial, dispute resolution and any other hearings, and appeal.  
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations hereunder in way shall  
    not impair or restrict either party's rights with respect to the  
    defense of such an action nor shall such obligations prohibit the  
    taking of any action that is in a party's best interest, including,  
    without limitation, seeking the dismissal or summary judgment of  
    claims, negotiating or entering into a settlement or pursuing any  
    form of alternative dispute resolution.  Each party in all cases  
    shall bear its own costs and related expenses with respect to any  
    third-party claim hereunder, including, without limitation,  
    attorneys' fees, costs, settlements and judgments.  
  
    XII.  EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT:  In order to be effective, this Lease  
    must be (1) signed by an authorized representative of the Lessee and  
    returned to the Department at the address set forth below,  
    accompanied by the security deposit and any required policy of  
    insurance, and (2) signed by the Department (3) enactment into law of  
    an Ordinance approving this Lease..  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have affixed their signatures  
    below:  
  
    LESSOR, THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    By_________________________________  
  
    Ken Bounds, Superintendent  
  
    Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
    Authorizing Ordinance:  
  
    City's address for all communications:  
  
    Contracts and Business Resources  
  
    P.O. Box 3443  
  
    Seattle, Washington   98114  
  
    LESSEE, The West Seattle Sportsman's Club, Inc. a Washington non-  
    profit corporation  
  
    By_________________________________  
  
    (name)(name)  
  
    (Title)  
  
    Lessee's address for all communications:  
  
    The West Seattle Sportsman's Club, Inc. a Washington non-profit  
    corporation  
  
    P.O. Box 16258  
  
    Seattle, WA   98116  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
            )   ss.  
  
    COUNTY OF KING    )  
  
      I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that  
    ______________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said  
    person acknowledged that he signed this instrument, on oath stated  
    that he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it  
    as the _______________________ of THE CITY OF SEATTLE Department of  
    Parks and Recreation to be the free and voluntary act of such party  
    for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.  
  
    Dated: _____________________________  
  
    _____________________________________________  
  
        (Notary Signature)  
  
    _____________________________________________  
  
                                  (Print Name)  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at  
    ______________.  
  
    My appointment expires _______________.  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON )  
  
            )   ss.  
  
    COUNTY OF KING    )  
  
      I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that  
    ________________ is the individual who appeared before me, and said  
    individual acknowledged that he signed this instrument, on oath  
    stated that he was authorized to execute the instrument and  
    acknowledged it as the ___________________ of The West Seattle  
    Sportsman's Club, Inc. a Washington non-profit corporation to be the  
    free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes  
    mentioned in the instrument.  
  
    Dated: _____________________________  
  
    ________________________________________________  
  
           (Notary Signature)  
  
    ________________________________________________  
  
              (Print Name)  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at  
    ______________.  
  
    My appointment expires ______________.  
  
    LEASE AGREEMENT  
  
    GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS  
  
    1.  POSSESSION.  In the event of the inability of the City to deliver  
    possession of the Premises, or any portion thereof, at the time of  
    the commencement of the term of this Lease, neither the City nor any  
    of its officers, employees or agents shall be liable for any damage  
    caused thereby, nor shall this Lease thereby become void or voidable  
    nor shall the term herein specified be in any way extended, but in  
    such event, the Lessee shall not be liable for any rent until such  
    time as the City can deliver possession.  In the event the Lessee  
    takes possession of the Premises prior to the commencement date of  
    this Lease, the Lessee and the City shall be bound by all of the  
    provisions and obligations of this Lease during such prior period,  
    including the obligation to pay rent and leasehold excise taxes at  
    the rates stated herein, prorated on a daily basis.  
  
    2.  LIABILITY.  
  
        (a)  Indemnification:  The Lessee shall indemnify and hold the  
    City harmless from any and all claims whatsoever arising out of the  
    use and occupancy of the Premises including claims arising by reason  
    of accident, injury or death caused to persons or property of any  
    kind as a direct or indirect consequence of any act or omission of  
    the Lessee, its officers, employees, agents, licensees, or invitees.  
  
        (b)  Assumption of Risk:  The placement and storage of personal  
    property on the Premises shall be the responsibility, and at the sole  
    risk, of the Lessee.  
  
    4.  COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.  
  
        (a)  Applicable Law:  This Lease shall be construed under and  
    governed by all applicable laws of the United States of America and  
    the State of Washington and the Charter and ordinances of The City of  
    Seattle, as well as all rules and regulations of any such  
    governmental entity.  
  
        (b)  Licenses, Permits and Taxes:  The Lessee shall be liable  
    for, and shall pay throughout the term of this Lease, all license and  
    excise fees and occupation taxes covering the business conducted on  
    the Premises, and all taxes on personal property of the Lessee on the  
    Premises and any excise or other taxes on the leasehold interest  
    created by this Lease; and in the event the State of Washington makes  
    any demand upon the City for payment of leasehold excise taxes  
    resulting from the Lessee's occupation of the Premises or withholds  
    funds due to the City to enforce collection of leasehold excise  
    taxes, the Lessee, at its sole expense, shall contest such action and  
    indemnify the City for all sums expended by, or withheld by the State  
    from, the City in connection with such taxation.  
  
        (c)  Equal Employment Opportunity and Nondiscrimination.  The  
    Lessee shall comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity  
    and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of  
    Washington, and The City of Seattle, including the Seattle Municipal  
    Code (SMC), notably SMC Ch. 20.44, and rules, regulations, orders,  
    and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their  
    officers.  
  
            (d)  Permits:  The Lessee, at no expense to the City, shall  
    obtain any and all applicable building permits, change of use  
    permits, and/or certifications of occupancy from the City as may be  
    required and shall deliver a copy of the same to the Superintendent  
    prior to occupying the Premises.  
  
    5.  NO SUBLEASES OR ASSIGNMENTS; LIMITATIONS ON USE AND PURPOSE.  
    Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Lessee shall not  
    enter into any sublease of the Premises or any portion thereof or any  
    assignment of any interest in this Lease, whether long- or short-term  
    in nature, or engage in any activity with respect to or on the  
    Premises other than for the express uses and purposes stipulated  
    herein, without obtaining the prior explicit written authorization  
    therefor from the Superintendent.  
  
    6.  USE AND CARE OF THE PREMISES.  
  
        (a)  General Condition:  Except as provided in Section VIII  
    (Special Terms and Conditions) Lessee shall keep the Premises at all  
    times in a neat, clean, safe and sanitary condition; and shall keep  
    and use the Premises in accordance with the laws of the State of  
    Washington and Charter and ordinances of The City of Seattle, and in  
    accordance with all authorized rules and regulations of the Health  
    Officer, Fire Marshall, Building Inspector and other officers of The  
    City of Seattle.  The Lessee shall not permit any waste, damage, or  
    injury to the Premises; use or permit on the Premises anything that  
    will increase the rate of fire insurance thereon; maintain anything  
    on the Premises that may be dangerous to life or limb; overload the  
    floors, permit any objectionable noise or odor to escape or to be  
    emitted from the Premises; permit anything to be done upon the  
    Premises that in any way will tend to create a nuisance or, in the  
    event of multiple occupancy, to disturb any other tenants of the  
    building in which the Premises form a part; or to use or permit the  
    use of the Premises for lodging or sleeping purposes.  
  
        (b)  Maintenance-Repairs:  The Premises have been inspected by  
    both parties and are accepted by Lessee in their existing condition  
    as of the commencement date of this Lease, without reservation except  
    for latent defects or faulty construction of the Premises not  
    discoverable by inspection at the time of taking possession.  All  
    normal repairs to roof, walls and foundations and existing utility  
    connections to and from the Premises necessary to maintain the  
    Premises in a tenantable condition shall be done by or under the  
    direction of the City, and at the City's expense, except those caused  
    by the negligence or acts of the Lessee, or the Lessee's officers,  
    employees, agents or invitees, which repairs shall be made at the  
    sole expense of the Lessee.  
  
        (c)  Alterations:  The Lessee shall not make, or cause to be  
    made, any alteration, addition or improvement in the Premises without  
    first obtaining the written consent of the Superintendent for such  
    work.  All structural alterations, additions and improvements that  
    are made, shall be at the sole cost and expense of Lessee, and shall  
    become the property of the City, and shall remain in and be  
    surrendered with the Premises as part thereof at the termination of  
    this Lease, without disturbance, molestation or injury.  The City  
    reserves an unqualified right to make alterations to the Premises or  
    to the building in which the Premises are situated (1) where  
    conditions deemed by the Superintendent to constitute an emergency,  
    exist; and (2) in order to correct code-deficiencies; and (3) where  
    such alterations do not unreasonably interfere with the ordinary  
    operation of the Premises by the Lessee.  
  
        (d)  Access:  The City reserves for itself, its officers,  
    employees, agents and contractors, free access to the Premises at all  
    reasonable times for the purposes of inspecting, cleaning or making  
    repairs, additions or alterations to the Premises or any other  
    property owned by or under the control of the City, but this right  
    shall not be construed as an agreement on the part of the City to  
    make inspections, clean, or make repairs, additions or alterations.  
    The Lessee shall have reasonable access to other property of the City  
    where necessary to provide utility services to the Premises; all of  
    the Lessee's work on such other City property shall be at no expense  
    to the City.  
  
    (e) Signs:  The Lessee shall not display, inscribe, paint or affix to  
    any part of the Premises any sign except a sign that has been  
    approved by the Superintendent.  
  
    (f) Building Rules and Regulations:  The Lessee shall comply with all  
    "Building Rules and  
  
    Regulations" (as stipulated in and attached hereto as Exhibit C) and  
    make every reasonable attempt to ensure compliance by its officers,  
    employees, agents, licensees, or invitees.  
  
    7.  DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION.  In the event that the Premises (a) are  
    damaged by fire, earthquake, act of war, or other extraordinary  
    casualty to such an extent as to render them untenantable in whole or  
    in substantial part; or (b) are destroyed, the City shall have the  
    option to repair or rebuild the Premises. Within forty-eight (48)  
    hours after the happening of any such event, the Lessee shall give  
    the Superintendent notice of such event.  The Superintendent shall  
    have sixty (60) days after the Superintendent's receipt of such  
    notification to notify the Lessee, in writing, of the City's  
    intention to repair or rebuild the Premises, or any part so damaged.  
    If the City elects to rebuild or repair the Premises, the City shall  
    prosecute the work of such repairing or rebuilding without  
    unreasonable delay, in accordance with the then-existing City  
    procedures, and during such period the rent for the Premises shall be  
    abated in the same ratio that the portion of the Premises rendered  
    for the time being unfit for occupancy bears to the whole of the  
    Premises; upon the completion of such rebuilding or repair, the  
    Lessee shall immediately reoccupy the Premises and pay the full rent  
    set forth in this Lease.  In the event the building in which the  
    Premises are located is substantially destroyed or damaged even  
    though the Premises are not so damaged or destroyed, and if, in the  
    opinion of the Superintendent, it would not be practical to repair or  
    rebuild the building, then the City shall have the option of  
    terminating this Lease by providing to the Lessee thirty (30) days'  
    prior written notice of termination.  The Lessee shall also have the  
    right to declare this Lease terminated, by providing to the City  
    thirty (30) days' prior written notice of such termination, which  
    notice shall be given within sixty (60) days after such damage or  
    destruction.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Lease, no  
    party to this Lease shall be liable in damages to any other party for  
    terminating this Lease in accordance with the provisions of this  
    section, because of the damage or destruction of the Premises or the  
    building in which the Premises forms a part.  
  
    8.  NOTICES.  Any notice to be given by either party to the other  
    shall be in writing and may either be delivered, personally, or may  
    be deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, as either  
    certified or regular mail, addressed as provided in the Special Terms  
    and Conditions hereof, or to such other respective addresses as  
    either party may, from time to time, designate in writing.  
  
    9.  RELATIONSHIP.  In no event shall the City be construed or held to  
    have become in any way or for any purpose a partner, associate, or  
    joint venturer of the Lessee or any party associated with the Lessee  
    in the conduct of the Lessee's business or otherwise.  This Lease  
    does not make the Lessee the agent or legal representative of the  
    City for any purpose whatsoever.  
  
    10. DEFINITION OF "SUPERINTENDENT".  The term "Superintendent", as  
    used throughout this Lease in regard to permission, warrant, consent,  
    approval, rights, interpretation, and discretionary matters, shall  
    mean the Superintendent of the Department Parks and Recreation or  
    his/her designee except where the granting of approval, consent or  
    permission or the taking of any other official action by any other  
    City official is required by law, ordinance, resolution, rule, or  
    regulation before the Lessee may rightfully commence, suspend,  
    enlarge, or terminate any particular undertaking or may obtain any  
    particular right or privilege under this Lease.  
  
    11.  AMENDMENTS.  The parties hereto especially reserve the right to  
    renegotiate and change the provisions of this Lease, from time to  
    time, as may be necessary.  No alteration or modification of the  
    terms or conditions of this Lease shall be valid and binding unless  
    made in writing and signed by the authorized representatives of the  
    parties hereto.  
  
    12.  NO WAIVER OF DEFAULT.  The City does not waive full compliance  
    with the terms and conditions of this Lease by acceptance of rent.  
    No waiver of default by either party of any of the terms, covenants,  
    and conditions hereof to be performed, kept and observed by the other  
    party shall be construed as, or operate as, a waiver of any  
    subsequent default of any of the terms, covenants and conditions of  
    this Lease to be performed, kept and observed by the other party.  
  
    13.  TERMINATION.  In the event that the Lessee defaults in the  
    performance of any of the terms, provisions, covenants, and  
    agreements on the Lessee's part to be kept, observed, and performed,  
    and such default is not corrected within thirty (30) days after the  
    receipt of notice thereof from the City, or such shorter period as  
    the City may determine is reasonable; or if the Lessee shall abandon,  
    desert, vacate, or remove from the Premises; then, in such event, the  
    Superintendent, at his/her option at any time thereafter, may  
    terminate this Lease together with all of the estate, right, and  
    title thereby granted to or vested in the Lessee, and may re-enter  
    said Premises using such force as may be required.  Notwithstanding  
    such re-entry by the City and anything to the contrary in this Lease,  
    the liability of the Lessee for the rent provided for herein shall  
    not be extinguished for the balance of the term of this Lease, and  
    such rent shall be immediately due and payable. The City reserves the  
    right to terminate this Lease prior to the scheduled expiration date  
    in the event the Premises are required by the City for an overriding  
    City purpose, as determined by the City. The City reserves the right  
    to terminate this Lease prior to the scheduled expiration date in the  
    event the Premises are no longer required by the City.  Notice of  
    said terminations shall be given to Lessee or City no later than one  
    hundred-eighty (180) days prior to the effective termination date.  
    The Lessee or City shall have no right to damages of any kind or  
    nature whatsoever for any such termination.  
  
    14.  TERMINATION RESULTING FROM THE CITY'S PRO PARKS PROJECT:   In  
    the event that the City's Pro Parks, "West Seattle Stadium Project"  
    is developed within the lease term, AND it becomes necessary or  
    desirable for the Department to work in and on the Premises, this  
    Agreement shall terminate.  The Club is responsible for, at its own  
    expense, relocating its operation, Club property and programs at  
    another site.  
  
    15.  SURRENDER OF PREMISES.  At the expiration or termination of this  
    Lease, the Lessee shall quit and surrender the Premises and all keys  
    thereto, without notice and in as good condition as received at the  
    commencement of the term, except for ordinary wear and tear; damage  
    or destruction by fire or other casualty or circumstances  
    uncontrollable by the Lessee; and alterations, improvements, and  
    additions made with the approval of the Superintendent unless  
    otherwise agreed as a condition of such approval.  
  
    16.  BINDING EFFECT.  This Lease shall be binding upon the heirs,  
    successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.  
  
    17.  INVALIDITY OF PROVISIONS.  Should any term, provision, condition  
    or other portion of this Lease be held to be inoperative, invalid, or  
    void, the same shall not affect any other term, provision, condition  
    or other portion of this Lease; and the remainder of this Lease shall  
    be effective as if such term, provision, condition, or portion were  
    not a part hereof.  
  
    Exhibit B  
  
    Legal Description  
  
    DAHL RIFLE RANGE PROPERTY DESCRIPTION as part of West Seattle Stadium  
    Plot description.  See floor plan in Exhibit A.  
  
    That part of SW1/4SW1/4 of Section 13, Township 24 North, Range 3  
    East, lying south of Block 13, West Holme Addition, East of 35th  
    Avenue S.W. and West of 31st Avenue S.W. extended.  
  
    Tax Parcel No. 132403 9101  
  
    Exhibit C  
  
    Rules  
  
    1. No sign, placard, picture, advertisement, name or notice shall be  
    installed or displayed on any part of the outside or inside of the  
    Building, including elevator lobbies without the consent of  
    Department Parks and Recreation.  All approved signs or lettering on  
    doors and walls shall be printed, painted, affixed or inscribed at  
    the expense of the Lessee.  No curtains, draperies, blinds, shutters,  
    shades, screens or other coverings, hangings or decorations shall be  
    attached to, hung or placed in, or used in connection with any window  
    of the Building without the consent of Department.  
  
    2. Lessee shall not obstruct any sidewalks, halls, passages, exits,  
    entrances, elevators or stairways of the Building.  The interior  
    halls, passages, exits, entrances, and stairways are not open to the  
    general public, but are open, subject to reasonable regulation, to  
    Lessee's business invitees.  Department shall in all cases retain the  
    right to control and prevent access thereto of all persons whose  
    presence in the judgment of Department could compromise the safety of  
    the Building and its tenants; providing that nothing herein contained  
    shall be construed to prevent such access to persons with whom any  
    Lessee normally deals in the ordinary course of this business, unless  
    such persons are engaged in illegal or unlawful activities.  No  
    Lessee and no employee or invitee of any Lessee shall go upon the  
    roof of the Building.  
  
    3. The Building directory will be provided for the display of the  
    name and location of Lessee Departments and specific units.   Any  
    additional name that Lessee wishes to add to the directory must first  
    be approved by Department and, if so approved, a charge will be made.  
  
    4. All cleaning and janitorial services for the Premises shall be  
    provided exclusively by Lessee and at its sole expense.  
  
    5. Department will furnish Lessee, free of charge, two (2) keys to  
    each door lock in the Premises. Lessee, upon the expiration or  
    earlier termination of its tenancy, shall deliver to Department all  
    Building keys. Lessee will be billed for all Building keys not  
    returned upon termination of tenancy. If tenant requires telegraphic,  
    telephonic, burglar alarm or similar services, it shall first obtain  
    approval, and comply with, Department's instructions as to their  
    installation.  
  
    6. No delivery of any good or service to the Premises shall be made  
    that impedes or interferes with the operation of the West Seattle  
    Stadium, parking lot or West Seattle Golf Course.  In its use of  
    loading areas, Lessee shall not obstruct or permit the obstruction of  
    said loading areas, and at no time shall Lessee park vehicles therein  
    except for loading and unloading.  Items delivered to Lessee shall be  
    promptly moved into the Premises.  
  
    7. Lessee shall not place a load upon any floor of the Premises that  
    exceeds the load per square foot that the floor was designed to carry  
    and that is allowed by law.  Department shall have the right to  
    prescribe the weight, size and position of all equipment, materials,  
    furniture or other property brought into the Building.  Heavy objects  
    shall, if considered necessary by Department, stand on such platforms  
    as determined by Department to be necessary to properly distribute  
    the weight, which platforms shall be provided at Lessee's expense.  
    Any business machine or mechanical equipment belonging to Lessee that  
    causes noise or vibration that may be transmitted to the structure of  
    the Building or to any space therein, to such a degree as to be  
    objectionable to Department or to any Lessee in the Building, shall  
    be placed and maintained by Lessee, at Lessee's expense, on vibration  
    eliminators or other devices sufficient to eliminate noise or  
    vibration.  Department  will not be responsible for loss of, or  
    damage to, any such equipment or other property from any cause, and  
    all damage done to the Building by maintaining or moving such  
    equipment or other property shall be repaired at the expense of  
    Lessee.  
  
    8. Lessee shall not use or keep in the Premises any kerosene,  
    gasoline or flammable or combustible fluid or material other than  
    those limited quantities necessary for the operation or maintenance  
    of office equipment and for Permitted use of the premises. Lessee  
    shall not use any method of heating or air conditioning, including  
    personal heaters or fans, other than that supplied and/or approved by  
    Department.  Appliances in kitchen/break areas must be approved in  
    advance.  
  
    9. Lessee shall not waste electricity, water or air conditioning and  
    agrees to cooperate fully with Department to assure the most  
    effective operation of the Building's heating and air conditioning  
    and to comply with any governmental energy-saving rules, laws or  
    regulations of which Lessee has actual notice, and shall refrain from  
    attempting to adjust controls.  Lessee shall keep corridor doors  
    closed, and shall close window coverings at the end of each business  
    day.  
  
    10. Department reserves the right to select the name of the Building  
    and to make such change or changes of name as it may deem appropriate  
    from time to time, and Lessee shall not refer to the Building by any  
    name other than: (i) the names as selected by Department (as same may  
    be changed from time to time), or (ii) the postal address, approved  
    by the United States Post Office.  Reference to the Premises as the  
    Roger Dahl Rifle Training Range shall be permitted on signs approved  
    by the Department.  
  
    11. Lessee shall close and lock the doors of its Premises and  
    entirely shut off all water faucets or other water apparatus, and  
    electricity, gas or air outlets before Lessee and its employees leave  
    the Premises.  Lessee shall be responsible for any damage or injuries  
    sustained by other Lessee or occupants of the Building or by  
    Department for Lessee's noncompliance with this rule.  
  
    12. Except as permitted by the Department, Lessee shall not install  
    any radio or television antenna, loudspeaker or other devices on the  
    roof or exterior walls of the Building.  Lessee shall not interfere  
    with radio or television broadcasting or reception from or in the  
    Building or elsewhere.  
  
    13. Lessee shall not install, maintain or operate upon the Premises  
    any vending machine, video game or other coin-operated or coin-  
    activated device without the written consent of Department.  
  
    14. Lessee shall store all its trash and garbage within its Premises  
    or in other facilities provided by Department.  Lessee shall not  
    place in any trash box or receptacle any material that cannot be  
    disposed of in the ordinary and customary manner of trash and garbage  
    disposal.  All garbage and refuse disposal shall be made in  
    accordance with directions issued, from time to time, by Department.  
  
    15. Lessee shall comply with all safety, fire protection and  
    evacuation procedures and regulations established by Department or  
    any governmental agency.  
  
    16. Lessee assumes any and all responsibility for protecting its  
    Premises from theft, robbery and pilferage, which includes keeping  
    doors locked and other means of entry to the Premises closed.  
  
    17. Lessee's request for service will be attended to when submitted  
    to the building maintenance office by an authorized individual.  No  
    employee of Department shall perform any work or do anything outside  
    of his/her regular duties unless under special instructions from  
    Department, and no employee of Department shall admit any person  
    (Lessee or otherwise) to any office outside of the Premises without  
    specific instructions from Department.  
  
    18. Department may waive any one or more of these Rules and  
    Regulations for the benefit of Lessee or any other Lessee, but no  
    such waiver by Department shall be construed as a waiver of such  
    Rules and Regulations in favor of Lessee or any other Lessee, nor  
    prevent Department from thereafter enforcing any such Rules and  
    Regulations against any or all of the Lessee of the Building.  
  
    19. Department  reserves the right to make such other and reasonable  
    Rules and Regulations as, in its judgment, may from time to time be  
    needed for safety and security, for care and cleanliness of the  
    Building and for the preservation of good order therein.  Lessee  
    agrees to abide by all such Rules and Regulations as stated and any  
    additional rules and regulations that are adopted.  
  
    20. Lessee shall be responsible for the observance of all of the  
    foregoing rules by Lessee's employees, agents, clients, customers,  
    invitees and guests.  
  
    21. No smoking is permitted anywhere in the Premises including any  
    public areas.  Public areas include lobbies, restrooms, stairwells,  
    and exposed exterior areas that are a part of the or form an entrance  
    to the Premises.  Smoking is also prohibited at any building entries  
    and open areas where the prevailing winds can sweep smoke into the  
    Premises.  
  
    EXHIBIT D  
  
    Janitorial Specifications - Only as applicable to the Premises  
  
    Daily:  
  
    1.  Trash and recycle  
  
    * Empty all deskside trash and recycle containers.  
  
    2.  Restroom cleaning:  
  
    * Empty the trash.  
  
    * Empty the sanitary napkin containers and replace the paper disposal  
    bag. Spray with disinfectant.  
  
    * Stock:  
  
    Paper towels  
  
    Toilet paper  
  
    Toilet seat covers  
  
    Soap dispensers  
  
    * Dust and wipe down:  
  
    Mirrors  
  
    Paper towel dispensers  
  
    Toilet seat cover dispensers  
  
    Toilet paper dispensers  
  
    Shelves  
  
    Sink fixtures  
  
    Soap dispensers  
  
    Brass on doors  
  
    Ceiling and door vents  
  
    Fingerprints from doors - both sides  
  
    Partition walls and doors  
  
    Walls around and under the toilet and urinals  
  
    Flashers on toilets and urinals  
  
    * Sweep the floor  
  
    * Sanitize:  
  
    Sinks  
  
    Toilets  
  
    Urinals  
  
    * Remove dried soap from walls and floors  
  
    * Change urinal aides as needed  
  
    * Wet mop and sanitize the floor  
  
    3.  Kitchens / lunchrooms and sink areas:  
  
    * Empty trash and recycle  
  
    * Wipe and clean all tables  
  
    * Wipe off fingerprints from refrigerator  
  
    * Clean and wipe down counter / cupboards  
  
    * Clean and wipe down drinking fountains and water coolers  
  
    * Refill soap and towel dispensers  
  
    * Wash and clean sinks  
  
    * Sweep and wet mop the floor  
  
    4.  Spa clean carpets.  
  
    5.  Spa / wet mop floor  
  
    Bi-Weekly: (twice a week)  
  
    1.  All common office and work area's:  
  
    * Dust all furniture:  
  
    Desk tops  
  
    File cabinets -low-tall-hanging and rolling  
  
    Bookcases - floor and hanging models  
  
    Tables  
  
    Computers  
  
    Phones  
  
    Window sills  
  
    Pictures  
  
    * Wipe / clean / polish:  
  
    All tables  
  
    All desks  
  
    All glass doors  
  
    All glass  
  
    Copy machine tables  
  
    Computers  
  
    All garbage cans and lids  
  
    All tops of recycle containers  
  
    Weekly:  (once a week)  
  
    1. Conference rooms:  
  
    * Empty all trash  
  
    * Clean all tables  
  
    * Dust window sills  
  
    * Dust and wipe chairs  
  
    * Vacuum the floor  
  
    Yearly:  
  
    1. Carpet care-shampooing  
  
    2. Floor care- snip and wax  
  
    3.  R/R detailing  
  
    * Wash or steam clean:  
  
    Walls  
  
    Toilets  
  
    Urinals  
  
    Sinks  
  
    Panels  
  
    Panel doors  
  
    Dispensers:  
  
      Toilet paper  
  
      Paper towels  
  
      Toilet seat covers  
  
        Sanitary napkin  
  
      Shelves  
  
      Trash containers  
  
    * Scrub and wax floors  
  
    4.  Wall washing:  
  
    A.  Wood walls (painters)  
  
    B.  Painted walls (once a year)  
  
    C.  Fabric walls and Partitions (vacuum once a year)  
  
    ??  
  
                2  
  
    Attachment 1 to West Seattle Sportsman's  
  
    Club Ordinance  
  
      1                  Attachment 1 to West Seattle Sportman's Club  
    Ordinance  
  
                               1                        Exhibit B to  
    Attachment 1  
  
                3  
  
    Exhibit C to Attachment 1  
  
    1  
  
    Exhibit C to Attachment 1  
  
                3  
  
    Exhibit D to Attachment 1  
  
    1  
  
    Exhibit D to Attachment 1  
  
    Floor Plans of Dahl Rifle Range figure 1.  
  
    Floor Plans of Dahl Rifle Range figure 2.  
