* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114656**   
**Ordinance Number: 121276**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE changing the name of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use to the Department of Planning and Development; amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 3.06 to reflect this change and changing a fund name to reflect this change; amending Seattle Municipal Code Sections 23.60.908 and 23.84.008 to reflect this name change; updating other obsolete references throughout the Seattle Municipal Code; and authorizing the Code Reviser to make changes over time to all references elsewhere in the Seattle Municipal Code necessary to reflect the name change.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 15, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Drago)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 26, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 26, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 11, 2003   
**Committee:** Land Use   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO   
  
**Index Terms:** GOVERNMENTAL-REORGANIZATION, DEPARTMENT-OF-DESIGN-CONSTRUCTION-AND-LAND-USE  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114656.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114656  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE changing the name of the Department of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use to the Department of Planning and  
    Development; amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 3.06 to reflect  
    this change and changing a fund name to reflect this change; amending  
    Seattle Municipal Code Sections 23.60.908 and 23.84.008 to reflect  
    this name change; updating other obsolete references throughout the  
    Seattle Municipal Code; and authorizing the Code Reviser to make  
    changes over time to all references elsewhere in the Seattle  
    Municipal Code necessary to reflect the name change.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Chapter 3.06 of the Seattle Municipal Code is  
    redesignated "Department of Planning and Development," and section  
    3.06.010 is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 3.06.010  Department created.  
  
    A.  There is created a Department of Design, Construction and  
    Land Use Planning and Development for the purpose of  
    providing stewardship of the City's Comprehensive Plan, taking a lead  
    role in overseeing and implementing the Comprehensive Plan, and  
    administering City ordinances which regulate building construction,  
    the use of land, and housing.  
  
    B.  As of January 1, 1999 the Department of Construction and  
    Land Use shall be known as the Department of Design, Construction and  
    Land Use. As of the effective date of this ordinance, the  
    Department of Design, Construction and Land Use shall be known as the  
    Department of Planning and Development.  
  
    C.  As of January 1, 1999 As of the effective date of  
    this ordinance, all references to "Construction and Land Use,"   
    "Design, Construction and Land Use", "Department of Construction  
    and Land Use," "Department of Design, Construction and Land Use,"  
    "Director of Construction and Land Use," "Director of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use," or the "Department of  
    Construction and Land Use Fund," "Department of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use Fund", and "DCLU" shall be   
    are deemed to be references to "Design, Construction and Land  
    Use Planning and Development "; "Department of   
    Design, Construction and Land Use Planning and Development  
    "; "Director of Design, Construction and Land Use   
    Planning and Development"; or the "Department of   
    Design, Construction and Land Use Planning and Development  
    Fund", or "DPD", respectively, except where the historical  
    reference to "Construction and Land Use," "Design, Construction  
    and Land Use", "Department of Construction and Land Use,"   
    "Department of Design, Construction and Land Use," "Director of  
    Construction and Land Use," "Director of Design, Construction and  
    Land Use," or the "Department of Construction and Land  
    Use Fund," "Department of Design, Construction and Land Use Fund",  
    or "DCLU" is called for by context.  
  
    D.  The City's Code Reviser is authorized to amend the Seattle  
    Municipal Code over time as he or she deems appropriate in order to  
    carry out this the name change authorized by this  
    ordinance.  
  
    Section 2.  Section 3.06.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    SMC 3.06.015  Hours of operation.  
  
    A.  Except as set forth in subsection B of this section, the  
    Applicant Services Center of the Department of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development shall  
    be open for transaction of business a total of at least forty-four  
    (44) hours per week, between the hours of seven (7:00) a.m. and five-  
    thirty (5:30) p.m., Mondays through Fridays. These hours may vary by  
    day of the week.  
  
    B.  In weeks containing one (1) or more days designated as holidays  
    by RCW 1.16.050 or containing Martin Luther King, Jr.'s birthday  
    holiday, the third Monday of January, the Applicant Services Center  
    of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use   
    Planning and Development shall be closed on those days, but shall  
    be open a total of at least forty-four (44) hours less the number of  
    hours it would normally be open on the weekdays on which holidays  
    fall in that week.  
  
    C.  The Director of Design, Construction and Land Use   
    Planning and Development shall establish and may revise from time  
    to time the business hours of the Applicant Services Center of the  
    Department of Design, Construction and Land Use Planning  
    and Development by rule promulgated in accordance with Chapter  
    3.02 of the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
    Section 3.  Section 3.06.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    SMC 3.06.020  Director -- Appointment and removal.  
  
    The Director of Design, Construction and Land Use   
    Planning and Development shall be appointed by the Mayor and  
    confirmed by a majority of the City Council subject to reappointment  
    and reconfirmation every four (4) years; and the Mayor may at any  
    time remove the Director of Design, Construction and Land Use  
     Planning and Development upon filing a statement of reasons  
    therefor with the City Council.  
  
    Section 4.  Section 3.06.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    SMC 3.06.030  Director -- Powers and duties.  
  
    The Director of the Department of Design, Construction and Land  
    Use Planning and Development, under direction of the  
    Mayor, shall manage the Department of Design, Construction and  
    Land Use Planning and Development, appoint, assign and  
    dismiss all employees in conformance with the City's personnel  
    ordinances and rules, and perform the following functions:  
  
    A.  Enforcing building ordinances of the City, including but not  
    limited to the provisions of the Building Code; the Electrical Code;  
    the Mechanical Code; the Housing and Building Maintenance Code; the  
    Land Use Code; the Pioneer Square Minimum Maintenance Ordinance; the  
    Condominium Conversion Ordinance; the Energy Code; the Stormwater,  
    Grading and Drainage Control Ordinance; and appropriate regulations;  
  
    B.  Processing applications for construction permits, for grading  
    permits, for use permits, for zoning exceptions, for subdivisions and  
    for other land use approvals, including those related to shorelines  
    management, but excluding those related to historic preservation;  
  
    C.  Stewarding, overseeing and implementing the City's Comprehensive  
    Plan, including monitoring and proposing updates to the Comprehensive  
    Plan, related plans associated with growth management and the  
    shoreline master program as required or directed;  
  
    D.  Preparing and maintaining and proposing updates of such sub-area  
    land use plans as required or directed;  
  
    E.  Conducting reviews of the effects of proposed projects on the  
    environment, as contemplated in the State Environmental Policy Act  
    and City ordinances;  
  
    F.  Promoting the conservation of the City's housing stock;  
  
    G.  Maintaining appropriate records regarding property, permits and  
    structures;  
  
    H.  Providing appropriate administrative and staff support to the  
    Seattle Planning Commission and the Seattle Design Commission;  
    provided, however, that a) the independence of the Planning  
    Commission recommendations pursuant to Article XIV, Section 3 of the  
    City Charter is preserved, b) that the Planning Commission is able to  
    respond to requests and provide advice to the Mayor and/or Council at  
    its discretion, and c) the Commission is able to participate in the  
    selection of staff to support the Commission and have approval  
    authority with respect to the selection and assignment of the  
    principal staff person;  
  
    I.  Discharging such other responsibilities as may be directed by  
    ordinance.  
  
    The Director shall consult on all matters of structural strength and  
    design with an assistant who is a licensed structural engineer or  
    architect with at least five (5) years' experience in the practice of  
    his/her profession, unless the Director possesses such  
    qualifications. Moreover, the Director shall consult on all matters  
    concerning compliance with design guidelines with a qualified  
    architect or urban designer with at least five (5) years of  
    experience in the practice of his/her profession, unless the Director  
    possesses such qualifications.  
  
    Section 5.  Section 3.06.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    SMC 3.06.040  Director - Agreements, rules and regulations.  
  
    The Director of Design, Construction and Land Use   
    Planning and Development is authorized to enter into such  
    agreements, including interdepartmental agreements, consistent with  
    provisions of law and the City Charter, as he or she shall deem  
    appropriate for carrying out the responsibilities, functions, and  
    activities of the Department of Design, Construction and Land  
    Use Planning and Development and may establish such rules,  
    procedures and regulations, consistent with this chapter and other  
    ordinances, as may appear necessary and proper.  
  
    Section 6.  Section 3.06.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    SMC 3.06.050  Director - Fees and charges.  
  
    The Director of Design, Construction and Land Use   
    Planning and Development shall charge such fees for licenses,  
    permits, inspections, reviews and other services and approvals as may  
    be provided by ordinance.  
  
    Section 7.  Section 3.06.055 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    SMC 3.06.055  Restricted Set-Asides.  
  
    A.  The Director of Executive Administration shall create within the  
    Department of Design, Construction and Land Use Planning  
    and Development Fund a set-aside account funded from regulatory  
    fees and other money allotted thereto, for the accumulation of set-  
    asides for the following municipal purposes:  
  
    1.  Staffing Stability -- to allow the Department of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development to  
    retain trained staff during cyclical economic downturns so that the  
    experience and abilities of that staff are available to customers  
    when the economy again turns upward.  
  
    2.  Technology -- to accumulate needed funding to assure that major  
    technology systems of the Department of Design, Construction and  
    Land Use Planning and Development can be upgraded or  
    replaced when necessary.  
  
    3.  Technology Currency -- to hold funds adequate to accomplish  
    normal personal computer replacements for the Department of   
    Design, Construction and Land Use Planning and Development  
    for a single year so that normal upgrades can occur even in the  
    trough of an economic downturn.  
  
    4.  Strategic Planning and Implementation -- to allow the Department  
    of Design, Construction and Land Use Planning and  
    Development to plan ahead for continuous process improvements to  
    better serve its customers, and to implement those plans, including  
    staff training and equipment.  
  
    B.  1.  Expenditures from the set-aside account shall be made only  
    when expressly authorized by the City Council either by  
    identification in the budget ordinance or other ordinance, or as set  
    out in subsection B2 below with respect to the staffing stability  
    set-aside.  
  
    2.  The Director of Department of Design, Construction and Land  
    Use Planning and Development may, within the limits of  
    that department's budgeted expenditure authority, draw on the  
    appropriate subdivision of the staffing stability set-aside for the  
    purpose established in subsection A1 to pay staffing costs associated  
    with a particular regulatory revenue source, but only when doing so  
    is consistent with the most recently adopted financial policies for  
    the department. The Director shall provide sixty (60) days notice in  
    advance to the chair of the City Council's Finance, Budget and  
    Economic Development Committee, or its successor committee with  
    responsibility for making recommendations on legislative matters  
    relating to budget and financing of each proposed use of the staffing  
    stability set-aside under authority of this subsection B2.  
  
    Section 8.  Section 3.06.080 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    SMC 3.06.080  Continuation of rules and regulations.  
  
    All rules, regulations and procedures in effect as of December  
    31, 1998 the effective date of this ordinance, with  
    respect to the activities carried on by the Department of Design,  
     Construction and Land Use shall continue to be in effect until  
    they expire of their own terms or are superseded by new rules,  
    procedures and regulations adopted in conformance with the  
    Administrative Code or other applicable law.  
  
    Section 9.  Subsections D and E in Section 6.82.020 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code are amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 6.82.020  Definitions  
  
    * * *  
  
    D.  "Department" means the Department of Design, Construction  
    and Land Use Planning and Development.  
  
    E.  "Director" means the Director of the Department of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development or  
    his/her duly authorized representative.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 10.  Subsections 'Department' and 'Director' in Section  
    6.230.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 6.230.030  Definitions  
  
    * * *  
  
    "Department" means the Department of Design, Construction and  
    Land Use Planning and Development.  
  
    "Director" means the Director of the Department of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development and  
    authorized representatives.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 11.  Subsection "Department" in Section 7.24.020 of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 7.24.020  Definitions.  
  
      As used in this chapter:  
  
      "Department" means the Department of Construction and Land Use  
    (DCLU) Planning and Development or its successor.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 12.  Subsection B in Section 10.52.010 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 10.52.010  Definitions.  
  
    * * *  
  
    B.  "Director" means the Director of the Department of   
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development, or the  
    Director's designee.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 13.  Subsection D in Section 15.02.042 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 15.02.042  Definitions A through C  
  
    * * *  
  
    D.  "Authorizing official" means the Director of Transportation, the  
    Director of Construction and Land Use Planning and  
    Development, the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, or the  
    Seattle Center Director, identified in Section 15.04.015, as the case  
    may be.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 14.  Subsection B in Section 15.02.044 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 15.02.044  Definitions D through M  
  
    * * *  
  
    B.  "Director of Construction and Land Use" means the City  
    Director of the Department of Construction and Land Use   
    Planning and Development, and his or her authorized  
    representatives.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 15.  Subsections A and C in Section 15.04.015 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code are amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 15.04.015  Authorizing official.  
  
      A.  The Director of Construction and Land Use Planning  
    and Development may authorize the construction of a curb cut, a  
    sidewalk cafe, or a structural building overhang, or reconstruction  
    of an areaway in a public place under the Master Use Permit  
    procedures of Chapter 23.76, particularly Section 23.76.006 B6, or  
    removal of trees and vegetation located in an environmentally  
    critical area under Chapter 25.09. An authorization for construction  
    in a park drive, boulevard, or area under the jurisdiction of the  
    Superintendent of Parks and Recreation identified in Appendix I or  
    shown on the map as Appendix II is dependent upon (a) a description  
    of the encroachment or use in the application for the Master Use  
    Permit or the accompanying materials; (b) its identification as park  
    drive, boulevard, or property under the jurisdiction of the  
    Superintendent of the area to be used; (c) the written concurrence of  
    the Superintendent; (d) payment of applicable fees; and (e) if there  
    is a modification, written concurrence of the Superintendent thereto.  
    Continuation of such uses after completion of construction is subject  
    to compliance with the terms and conditions of this title; inspection  
    and administration by the Director of Transportation or the  
    Superintendent, as the case may be; and payment of an annual fee, if  
    applicable.  
  
    * * *  
  
      C.  The Director of Transportation has authority to issue use and  
    occupation of, and administer this title for, all other public places  
    and for uses other than those authorized to the Director of   
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development under  
    Chapter 23.76. The Director of Transportation may delegate to the  
    Director of the Seattle Center the administration of permits for  
    streets within the Seattle Center, and to the Superintendent the  
    administration of permits for sidewalks and planting strips adjacent  
    to parks.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 16.  Subsection C4b in Section 15.32.300 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 15.32.300  Attachments to City-owned Poles  
  
    * * *  
  
    b.  Class II attachment requests are subject to public notice and  
    comment. Approval of attachments may include requirements for extra  
    mitigation measures in certain areas, such as residential, critical  
    areas and shoreline zones, greenbelts, parks, historic districts and  
    view-sheds. All such extra measures, including any additional public  
    involvement and/or environmental review, shall be taken in accordance  
    with directives from the Superintendent of the City Light Department,  
    and all costs associated with such extra measures and review shall be  
    paid by the applicant. Where a request meets the following criteria  
    in Seattle, the applicant shall apply to DCLU the  
    Department of Planning and Development and pay for an attachment  
    siting review and recommendation consistent with the application,  
    fee, notice, timeline and criteria for an administrative conditional  
    use permit. The DCLU recommendation of the Department of  
    Planning and Development shall be advisory to the Superintendent:  
    Zoning               Pole  
                        Street             Height               Height  
    Zone                Type               Limit                Requested  
  
    SF, L-1, NC-1       Nonarterial          
    SF, L-1, NC-1       Arterial           60  
  
    L-2, L-3, L-4,      Either             60  
    NC-2  
  
    NC-3, C, I, MI      Either             60  
  
    Section 17.  Subsection 5 in Section 21.16.030 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 21.16.030  Definitions  
  
    * * *  
  
    5.  "Director of Construction and Land Use" means the Director or  
    employees of The City of Seattle Department of Construction and  
    Land Use Planning and Development.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 18.  Subsection A in Section 22.204.050 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 22.204.050  Definitions -- D.  
  
    A.  "Director" means the Director of the Department of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development for the  
    City of Seattle and/or the Director's designee.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 19.  Subsections A and C1p in 22.206.160 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code are amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 22.206.160  Duties of Owners  
  
    A.  It shall be the duty of all owners, regardless of any lease  
    provision or other agreement that purports to transfer the owner' s  
    responsibilities hereunder to an operator, manager or tenant, to:  
  
    1.  Remove all garbage, rubbish and other debris from the premises;  
  
    2.  Secure any building which became vacant against unauthorized  
    entry as required by Section  22.206.200 of this Code;  
  
    3.  Exterminate insects, rodents and other pests which are a menace  
    to public health, safety or welfare. Compliance with the Director's  
    Rule governing the extermination of pests shall be deemed compliance  
    with this subsection 3;  
  
    4.  Remove from the building or the premises any article, substance  
    or material imminently hazardous to the health, safety or general  
    welfare of the occupants or the public, or which may substantially  
    contribute to or cause deterioration of the building to such an  
    extent that it may become a threat to the health, safety or general  
    welfare of the occupants or the public;  
  
    5.  Remove vegetation and debris as required by SMC Section  
    10.52.030;  
  
    6.  Lock or remove all doors and/or lids on furniture used for  
    storage, appliances, and furnaces which are located outside an  
    enclosed, locked building or structure;  
  
    7.  Maintain the building and equipment in compliance with the  
    minimum standards specified in Sections  22.206.010 through  
    22.206.140 and in a safe condition, except for maintenance duties  
    specifically imposed in Section  22.206.170 on the tenant of the  
    building; provided that this subsection 7 shall not apply to owner-  
    occupied dwelling units in which no rooms are rented to others;  
  
    8.  Affix and maintain the street number to the building in a  
    conspicuous place over or near the principal street entrance or  
    entrances or in some other conspicuous place. This provision shall  
    not be construed to require numbers on either appurtenant buildings  
    or other buildings or structures where the Director finds that the  
    numbering is not appropriate. Numbers shall be easily legible, in  
    contrast with the surface upon which they are placed. Figures shall  
    be no less than two (2) inches high;  
  
    9.  Maintain the building in compliance with the requirements of  
    Section 104(d) of the Seattle Building Code;  
  
    10.  Comply with any emergency order issued by the Department of   
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development; and  
  
    11.  Furnish tenants with keys for the required locks on their  
    respective housing units and building entrance doors.  
  
    * * *  
  
    p.  A tenant, or with the consent of the tenant, his or her  
    subtenant, sublessee, resident or guest, has engaged in criminal  
    activity on the premises, or on the property or public right-of-way  
    abutting the premises, and the owner has specified in the notice of  
    termination the crime alleged to have been committed and the general  
    facts supporting the allegation, and has assured that the Department  
    of Design, Construction and Land Use Planning and  
    Development has recorded receipt of a copy of the notice of  
    termination. For purposes of this subsection a person has "engaged in  
    criminal activity" if he or she:  
  
    i.  Engages in drug-related activity that would constitute a  
    violation of RCW Chapters 69.41, 69.50 or 69.52, or  
  
    ii.  Engages in activity that is a crime under the laws of this  
    state, but only if the activity substantially affects the health or  
    safety of other tenants or the owner.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 20.  Subsection D in Section 22.210.030 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 22.210.030  Definitions  
  
    * * *  
  
    D.  "Director" means the Director of the Department of   
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development, or the  
    Director's designee.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 21.  Subsection A in Section 22.220.040 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 22.220.040  Definitions.  
  
    A.  "Director" means the director of the Department of   
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development or the  
    Director's designee.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 22.  Section 22.801.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is  
    amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 22.801.010  General.  
  
    For the purpose of this subtitle, the words listed in this chapter  
    have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates  
    otherwise. Terms relating to pollutants and to hazardous wastes,  
    materials, and substances, where not defined in this subtitle, shall  
    be as defined in Washington Administrative Code Chapters 173-303,  
    173-304 and 173-340, the Seattle Building Code or the Seattle Fire  
    Code, including future amendments to those codes. Words used in the  
    singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the  
    singular.  
  
    Effective July 5, 2000, all All references in the  
    Seattle Municipal Code Chapters 22.800 through 22.808 to "SPU"  
    shall be deemed references to "Seattle Public Utilities".  All  
    references in the Seattle Municipal Code Chapters 22.800 through  
    22.808 to "Department of Construction and Land Use," "Department  
    of Design, Construction and Land Use," "Director of Construction and  
    Land Use," "Director of Design, Construction and Land Use," or   
    "Seattle Public Utilities", "DCLU", shall be deemed  
    references to "DCLU," "DCLU," "Director of DCLU," "Director of  
    "DCLU" or "SPU," respectively "Department of Planning and  
    Development", "Director of Planning and Development" or "DPD".  
    The City's code reviser is authorized to amend the Seattle Municipal  
    Code Chapters 22.802 through 22.808 over time as he or she deems  
    appropriate in order to carry out these changes.  
  
    Section 23.  Subsection A in Section 22.900A.020 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    22.900A.020  Purpose.  
  
    A.  It is the purpose of this subtitle to prescribe equitable fees  
    and fee collection policies for all services provided by the  
    Department of Design, Construction and Land Use Planning  
    and Development, hereafter, "Department" or "DCLU" which are  
    sufficient to support the permitting and permit inspection functions  
    of the Department.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 24.  Subsection F in Section 22.903.020 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    22.903.020  Definitions.  
  
    * * *  
  
    F.  "Director" means the Director of the Seattle Department of   
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development or the  
    Director's designee.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 25.  Subsection B in Section 22.904.010 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 22.904.010  Definitions.  
  
    * * *  
  
    B.  "Certificate of completion" means the Director of the Department  
    of Construction and Land Use's Planning and  
    Development's written notice to the mobile home park owner that  
    the owner has satisfactorily complied with the provisions of an  
    approved relocation report and plan, has complied with eviction  
    notice requirements of RCW 59.20.080 and 59.21.030, complied with  
    relocation assistance requirements of RCW 59.21.020, and, in the case  
    of a change of use, complied with any additional conditions of the  
    master use permit. The certificate of completion certifies the  
    effective date of such change of use or closure of a mobile home  
    park.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 26.  Subsection 'Director' in Section 23.60.908 of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.908  Definitions -- D.  
  
    * * *  
  
    "Director" means the Director of the Department of Construction  
    and Land Use Planning and Development of The City of  
    Seattle.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 27. Subsections 'Department' and 'Director' in Section  
    23.84.008 of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.84.008  "D"  
  
    * * *  
  
      "Department" means the Department of Construction and Land Use  
     Planning and Development.  
  
    * * *  
  
      "Director" means the Director of the Department of   
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development, or the  
    Director's designee.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 28.  Section 25.08.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code is  
    amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.08.060  Administrator.  
  
    "Administrator" means the Director of the Department of   
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development or his  
    or her authorized representative, except that the Director of the  
    Seattle-King County Department of Public Health-Seattle  
    and King County or his or her authorized representative shall  
    continue to be the "Administrator" of Subchapter VII Variances  
    through December 31, 1993.  
  
    Section 29.  Subsection 'Director' in Section 25.09.420 of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.09.420  Definitions.  
  
    * * *  
  
    "Director" means the Director of the Department of Construction  
    and Land Use Planning and Development or his or her  
    designee.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 30.  Subsections 'Director' and 'Exceptional tree' in Section  
    25.11.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.11.020 Definitions.  
  
    * * *  
  
    "Director" means the Director of the Department of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development.  
  
    * * *  
  
    "Exceptional tree" means a tree that because of its unique  
    historical, ecological, or aesthetic value constitutes an important  
    community resource, and is designated as such by the Director  
    according to standards and procedures promulgated by the Department  
    of Design, Construction and Land Use Planning and  
    Development.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 31.  Section 25.12.115 of the Seattle Municipal Code is  
    amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.12.115  Director of Construction and Land Use.  
  
      All references in Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 25.12 to  
    "Director of Construction and Land Use" and "Director of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use" is are deemed references  
    to the Director of the Department of Construction and Land  
    Use Planning and Development of the City or such other  
    official as may be designated from time to time to issue permits for  
    construction, alteration, reconstruction, or demolition of  
    improvements upon real property in the City.  
  
    Section 32.  Subsections F and I in Section 25.20.010 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code are amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.20.010  Definitions.  
  
    * * *  
  
    F.  "Department or Director of Construction and Land Use" is  
    the Department or Director of Construction and Land Use  
     Planning and Development of the City of Seattle or such  
    other official as may be designated from time to time to issue  
    permits for construction or demolition of improvements upon real  
    property in the City.  
  
    * * *  
  
    I.  "Significant change" is any change in external appearance, other  
    than routine maintenance or repair in kind, not requiring a permit  
    from the Director of Construction and Land Use Planning  
    and Development, but for which a certificate of approval is  
    expressly required by the Landmarks Board and by this chapter.  
  
    Section 33.  Subsection E in Section 25.22.020 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.22.020  Definitions  
  
    * * *  
  
      E.  "Director" is the Director of the Department of   
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development of the  
    City or such other official as may be designated from time to time to  
    issue permits for construction, alteration, reconstruction or  
    demolition of improvements upon real property in the City.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 34.  Subsections B and C in Section 25.22.130 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code are amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.22.130 Appeal to Hearing Examiner.  
  
    * * *  
  
    B.  When the proposed action that is the subject of the certificate  
    of approval is also the subject of one (1) or more related permit  
    applications under review by the Department of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development, then  
    the appellant must also file notice of the appeal with the Department  
    of Design, Construction and Land Use Planning and  
    Development, and the appeal of the certificate of approval shall  
    not be heard until all of the time periods for filing administrative  
    appeals on the other permits have expired except that an appeal of a  
    certificate of approval for the preliminary design or for subsequent  
    design phases may proceed immediately according to Section 25.22.100  
    without being consolidated. If one (1) or more appeals are filed  
    regarding the other permits, then the appeal of the certificate of  
    approval shall be consolidated with them and shall be heard according  
    to the same timelines established for the other appeals, except that  
    appeals to the State Shoreline Hearings Board shall proceed  
    independently according to the timelines set by the state for such  
    appeals, and except that an appeal of a certificate of approval for a  
    preliminary design or for a subsequent design phase may proceed  
    according to Section  25.22.100  without being consolidated. If the  
    related permit decisions would not be appealable, then the appeal of  
    the certificate of approval decision shall proceed immediately after  
    it is filed.  
  
    C.  The applicant for the certificate of approval may elect to have  
    the appeal proceed immediately rather than postponed for  
    consolidation with appeals of related permit applications, if the  
    applicant agrees in writing that the Department of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development may  
    suspend its review of the related permits, and that the time period  
    for review of those permits shall be suspended until the Hearing  
    Examiner issues a decision on the appeal of the certificate of  
    approval.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 35.  Subsections B and C in Section 25.24.080 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code are amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.24.080 Appeal to Hearing Examiner.  
  
    * * *  
  
    B.  When the proposed action that is the subject of the certificate  
    of approval is also the subject of one (1) or more related permit  
    applications under review by the Department of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development, then  
    the appellant must also file notice of the appeal with the Department  
    of Design, Construction and Land Use Planning and  
    Development, and the appeal of the certificate of approval shall  
    not be heard until all of the time periods for filing administrative  
    appeals on the other permits have expired except that an appeal of a  
    certificate of approval for the preliminary design or for subsequent  
    design phases may proceed immediately according to Section  25.24.060  
    without being consolidated. If one (1) or more appeals are filed  
    regarding the other permits, then the appeal of the certificate of  
    approval shall be consolidated with them and shall be heard according  
    to the same timelines established for the other appeals, except that  
    appeals to the State Shoreline Hearings Board shall proceed  
    independently according to the timelines set by the state for such  
    appeals and except that an appeal of a certificate of approval for a  
    preliminary design or for a subsequent design phase may proceed  
    according to Section  25.24.060  without being consolidated. If the  
    related permit decisions would not be appealable, then the appeal of  
    the certificate of approval decision shall proceed immediately after  
    it is filed.  
  
    C.  The applicant for the certificate of approval may elect to have  
    the appeal proceed immediately rather than postponed for  
    consolidation with appeals of related permit applications, if the  
    applicant agrees in writing that the Department of Design,  
    Construction and Land Use Planning and Development may  
    suspend its review of the related permits, and that the time period  
    for review of those permits shall be suspended until the Hearing  
    Examiner issues a decision on the appeal of the certificate of  
    approval.  
  
    * * *  
  
    Section 36.  Subsection H in Section 25.28.230 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 25.28.230  Definitions.  
  
    * * *  
  
    H.  "Superintendent" means the Director of Construction and Land  
    Use Planning and Development and shall also include any  
    duly authorized representative of the Director.  
  
    Section 37.  In all ordinances passed prior to this ordinance,  
    including both codified and uncodified ordinances, references to the  
    "Department" or "Director of Construction and Land Use," "Design,  
    Construction and Land Use" or "DCLU," shall be deemed references to  
    the "Department" or "Director of Planning and Development" or "DPD,"  
    except when the historical reference to "Department" or "Director of  
    Construction and Land Use," "Design Construction and Land Use" or  
    "DCLU" is called for by context.  
  
    Section 38.  In the event any section or subsection of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code authorized to be amended herein has heretofore been  
    repealed, that earlier repeal shall be given full effect, and nothing  
    in this ordinance shall be construed to re-enact or preserve that  
    section or subsection.  
  
    Section 39.  In the event a subsequent ordinance refers to a  
    position, office, or department name amended or authorized to be  
    amended by this ordinance, it is the express intent of the City  
    Council that that reference shall be deemed to mean the new name of  
    the office, position, or department as set forth in this ordinance,  
    and shall not be construed to resurrect the old name of the position,  
    office, or department unless expressly provided by reference to this  
    ordinance.  
  
    Section 40.  It is the express intent of the City Council that, in  
    the event a subsequent ordinance refers to or amends a section or  
    subsection of the Seattle Municipal Code authorized to be amended by  
    this ordinance, but the later ordinance fails to account for the name  
    change made by this ordinance, the later ordinance shall be deemed to  
    refer to the new name of the department.  
  
    Section 41.  Severability.  The several provisions of this ordinance  
    are declared to be separate and severable and the invalidity of any  
    clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section, or portion of this  
    ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person  
    or circumstance, shall not affect the validity of the remainder of  
    this ordinance of the validity of its application to other persons or  
    circumstances.  
  
    Section 42.  Any act consistent with the authority and before the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 43.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Maureen Traxler/MT  
  
    DPD name change ordinance.doc  
  
    July 28, 2003  
  
    version #4  
