* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114601**   
**Ordinance Number: 121219**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to historic preservation, imposing controls upon the El Rio Apartments, a Landmark designated by the Landmarks Preservation Board under Chapter 25.12 of the Seattle Municipal Code, and adding it to the Table of Historical Landmarks contained in Chapter 25.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 14, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 22, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 21, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 16, 2003   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Arts and Civil Rights   
**Sponsor:** LICATA   
  
**Index Terms:** LANDMARKS, CASCADE, SOUTH-LAKE-UNION  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114601.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114601  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE __________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to historic preservation, imposing controls upon  
    the El Rio Apartments, a Landmark designated by the Landmarks  
    Preservation Board under Chapter 25.12 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    and adding it to the Table of Historical Landmarks contained in  
    Chapter 25.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
    WHEREAS, the Landmarks Ordinance, Chapter 25.12 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code (SMC), establishes a procedure for the designation and  
    preservation of structures and areas having historical, cultural,  
    architectural, engineering or geographic importance; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Landmarks Preservation Board, after a public meeting on  
    January 6, 1999, voted to approve the nomination of the El Rio  
    Apartments at 1922-28 9th Avenue, in Seattle as a Landmark under SMC  
    Chapter 25.12; and  
  
    WHEREAS, after a public meeting on March 3, 1999, the Board voted to  
    approve the designation of the El Rio Apartments and the site as a  
    Landmark under SMC Chapter 25.12; and  
  
    WHEREAS, on June 2, 1999, the Board and the owners of the designated  
    property agreed to controls and incentives; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Board recommends to the City Council approval of controls  
    and incentives; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
      Section 1.  DESIGNATION:  The designation by the Landmarks  
    Preservation Board of the El Rio Apartments, and its site, located on  
    the property described as:  
  
    Heirs of Sara A. Bell 2nd Addition, Block 35, Lot 5  
  
    as a Landmark based upon satisfaction of the following standards of  
    SMC Section 25.12.350:  
  
      D.  It embodies the distinctive visible characteristics of an  
    architectural style, or  
  
    period, or of a method of construction;  
  
    is hereby acknowledged.  
  
      Section 2.  CONTROLS:  The following controls are hereby imposed on  
    the features and characteristics of the El Rio Apartments and its  
    site, that was designated by the Board for preservation.  
  
      A.  CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL PROCESS  
  
      1.  A Certificate of Approval, issued by the City of Seattle's  
    Landmarks Preservation Board pursuant to Seattle Municipal Code,  
    25.12, must be obtained, or the time for denying a Certificate of  
    Approval application must be expired, before the owner may make  
    alterations or significant changes to:  
  
    The exterior of the building, including the roof.  
  
      B.  ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW  
  
      2.  Administrative review and approval may be provided for the items  
    listed in subsection 3 according to the following procedures.  The  
    Owner shall submit to the City Historic Preservation Officer (CHPO) a  
    written request for these alterations, including applicable drawings  
    and/or specifications.  If the CHPO, upon examination of submitted  
    plans and specifications, determines that such alterations are  
    consistent with the purposes of SMC 25.12 the alterations shall be  
    approved without the need for any further action by the Board.  If the  
    CHPO disapproves such alterations, the Owner may submit revised  
    material to the CHPO, or submit in accordance with the Certificate of  
    Approval process set forth in SMC 25.12.  
  
      3.  The CHPO shall submit his or her written decisions on the  
    Owner's submittal to the Owner.  Failure of the CHPO to approve or  
    disapprove the request shall constitute approval of the request.  
  
      4.  Administrative review is available for the following:  
  
      For the designated areas of the building, the addition or  
    elimination of duct conduits HVAC vents, fire escapes, pipes, and  
    other similar wiring or mechanical elements necessary for the normal  
    operation of the buildings.  
  
      Section 3.  INCENTIVES  
  
      A.  Seattle Municipal Code Title 23 provides for authorization of  
    uses in a designated Landmark that are not normally permitted in a  
    particular zoning classification by means of an administrative  
    conditional use.  
  
      B.  The Building and Energy Codes provide for exceptions on an  
    application basis.  
  
      C.  Historic Preservation Special Tax Valuation (Chapter 84.26 RCW)  
    is available to Seattle landmarks subject to controls imposed by  
    designation ordinance by application.  
  
      Section 4.  Enforcement of this Ordinance and penalties for its  
    violation shall be as provided in SMC 25.12.910.  
  
      Section 5.  The El Rio Apartments and the site are hereby added to  
    the Table of Historical Landmarks contained in SMC Chapter 25.32.  
  
      Section 6.  The City Clerk is directed to record this ordinance with  
    the King County Director of Records and Elections, deliver two copies  
    to the City Historic Preservation Officer, and deliver one copy to the  
    Director of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use.  
  
      Section 7.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2003,  
    and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      President     of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
  
      City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    Elizabeth Chave/JLB  
  
    El Rio Apartments Ord.doc  
  
    May 19, 2003  
  
    V # 1  
