* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114612**   
**Ordinance Number: 121206**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing the Seattle Center Director to execute an Agreement between the City of Seattle, the Pacific Northwest Ballet Association and the Seattle Opera relating to the use and management of Marion Oliver McCaw Hall; and creating a new McCaw Hall Subfund of the Seattle Center Fund for segregating McCaw Hall operational expenses and earnings.  
  
**Status:** Passed As Amended   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 23, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 2, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 1, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 16, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER   
  
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-CENTER, OPERA-HOUSE, CIVIC-AUDITORIUM, SEATTLE-CENTER-FACILITIES, FINANCE, BUDGET, ACCOUNTING  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing  
    the Seattle Center Director to execute an Agreement between the City  
    of Seattle, the Pacific Northwest Ballet Association and the Seattle  
    Opera relating to the use and management of Marion Oliver McCaw Hall;  
    and creating a new McCaw Hall Subfund of the Seattle Center Fund for  
    segregating McCaw Hall operational expenses and earnings.  
  
    WHEREAS, the Pacific Northwest Ballet (Ballet) and the Seattle Opera  
    (Opera) are world-renowned companies who have, since their inception,  
    presented their art in the Seattle Center Opera House; and  
  
    WHEREAS, in recognition of the fact that the Opera House had  
    significant seismic problems that would have required some $82 million  
    to repair and had generally outlived its useful life, on November 2,  
    1999, the voters of Seattle approved a special property tax levy lid  
    lift to provide $29,000,000 toward the renovation of the Opera House  
    into the Marion Oliver McCaw Hall (McCaw Hall); and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City of Seattle requested the Ballet and the Opera to  
    help raise significant private dollars for the new hall and, together  
    with the Seattle Center Foundation, have committed to raising $70  
    million for the project; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the status of McCaw Hall as an invaluable regional facility  
    has been demonstrated during its 75-year history as the Civic  
    Auditorium and Seattle Opera House and, during this transformation, by  
    the private contributions from donors inside and outside the city  
    limits; and  
  
    WHEREAS, McCaw Hall will afford the Ballet and Opera opportunities to  
    present performances that will result in enhanced national and  
    international visibility for the City of Seattle; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the presence of such esteemed arts organizations contributes  
    substantially to the cultural and economic vibrancy of the City; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Ballet and Opera are prepared to enter into a long-term  
    relationship with the City in which all parties share in the risks and  
    rewards of operating and maintaining McCaw Hall; and  
  
    WHEREAS, in entering a joint management agreement the City desires to  
    have efficient and accurate accounting structures for the new McCaw  
    Hall.  
  
    NOW THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Seattle Center Director is authorized to execute, for  
    and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an agreement with the Pacific  
    Northwest Ballet Association and the Seattle Opera, substantially in  
    the form of the agreement attached hereto and identified as "Agreement  
    between the City of Seattle, Pacific Northwest Ballet Association and  
    Seattle Opera Relating to the Use and Management of Marion Oliver  
    McCaw Hall."  
  
    Section 2.   The Director of Finance, in consultation with the Seattle  
    Center Director, is authorized and directed to create a McCaw Hall  
    Subfund, a subfund of the Seattle Center Fund, into which shall be  
    deposited all revenues derived from the operation of McCaw Hall and  
    from which the operating and maintenance expenses of the McCaw Hall  
    shall be paid.  Any unused funds, interest earnings or excess revenues  
    above current operating expenses shall be retained in the McCaw Hall  
    Subfund to pay future McCaw Hall maintenance or operating expenses.  
    The Seattle Center Director is authorized to make transfers between  
    the Seattle Center Fund and the McCaw Hall Subfund in order to make  
    the necessary accounting transactions in accordance with the Agreement  
    attached hereto.  Any income derived from investment of balances in  
    this subfund, shall be deposited into the subfund.  The schedule of  
    general fund contributions to the McCaw Hall subfund shall be approved  
    by the Director of Finance.  
  
    Section 3. The City Council requests that the Seattle Center Director  
    report to the Parks, Education and Libraries Committee or its  
    functional successor at least once on the proposed terms and  
    conditions of the individual facility use agreements with the Ballet  
    and Opera before such agreements are executed, and periodically as  
    requested by the Committee, on the overall financial condition and  
    operations of McCaw Hall, including a list of public benefits.  
  
    Section 4.  Any act consistent with this authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 5.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    President of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    Attachment 1 - Agreement between the City of Seattle, Pacific  
    Northwest Ballet Association and Seattle Opera Relating to the Use and  
    Management of Marion Oliver McCaw Hall.  
  
    6/18/03  
    V #7  
    t  
    AGREEMENT  
  
    between the City of Seattle,  
  
    Pacific Northwest Ballet Association and Seattle Opera  
  
    Relating to the Use and Management of Marion Oliver McCaw Hall  
  
      This Agreement is entered into this ____ day of _______ by and  
    between The City of Seattle ("City"), a first class city of the State  
    of Washington, the Pacific Northwest Ballet Association ("Ballet"),  
    and Seattle Opera ("Opera"), both world-class Washington non-profit  
    corporations.  
  
    Background and Principles Underlying this Agreement:  
  
    1.  The people of the City of Seattle are proud to support a  
    flourishing and continually developing arts community.  
  
    2.  The real property and improvements commonly known as the Opera  
    House are owned by the City and operated, managed and maintained by  
    Seattle Center.  Two of the goals of Seattle Center are to be the  
    "Cultural and Community Heart of the City", and the "Nation's Best  
    Gathering Place."  
  
    3.  The Ballet and the Opera, collectively referred to herein as  
    "Resident Entities", have presented their art, since their inception,  
    in the Opera House.  
  
    4.  As of the year 2001, the Opera House was in poor condition and in  
    need of major repairs to bring the building up to current codes  
    (seismic and life safety).  There was a value to the structure, even  
    in its poor condition, in the range of $70 million to $100 million.  
  
    5.  In 1997, the parties adopted an Action Plan to redevelop the  
    Opera House into Marion Oliver McCaw Hall ("McCaw Hall").  In  
    addition to the City's contribution of the existing structure, the  
    resources needed to redevelop the existing Opera House building  
    consist of 44% public funding and 56% private contributions.  The  
    Seattle Center Foundation and each of the Resident Entities share in  
    the private fundraising.  
  
    6.  In recognition of the amount of private funds raised by the  
    Resident Entities and their commitment to future use of McCaw Hall,  
    the City commits to continuing its financial support of McCaw Hall as  
    set forth in this Agreement.  
  
    7.    All parties understand and acknowledge that the Mayor and  
    Seattle City Council must approve and authorize Seattle Center to  
    enter into this agreement.  
  
    8.  Seattle Center enters into this Agreement on the express  
    condition that Seattle Center operate McCaw Hall principally as a  
    performing arts facility for the Resident Entities as the principal  
    and resident users, as described in the Action Plan, and for other  
    users as the Resident Entities' schedules allow.  McCaw Hall must  
    first and foremost serve the operating needs of the Resident  
    Entities.  
  
    9. The Resident Entities may provide leasehold improvements to McCaw  
    Hall, which remain the property of the Resident Entities.  Upon  
    expiration of this Agreement, earlier termination, or should either  
    of the Resident Entities dissolve, such leasehold improvements shall  
    be distributed to the non-profit Seattle Center Foundation.  
  
    10.    Seattle Center and the Resident Entities will develop a new  
    management structure for McCaw Hall that will enhance the  
    responsiveness of building management to the needs of the Resident  
    Entities and their patrons, and ensure the long-term excellence of  
    the facility.  As an example, such structure will address  
    maintenance, support, and staffing.  
  
    11.    McCaw Hall shall be operated by the Seattle Center, on behalf  
    of the City, under the oversight of a "Marion Oliver McCaw Hall  
    Operating Board" (the "MOB"), consisting of one representative from  
    Seattle Center and one representative from each Resident Entity.  The  
    MOB will have authority to develop and recommend policies, subject to  
    Mayoral and City Council approval, when required, for:  
  
    * Long Range Capital Improvements  
  
    * Operating Levels of Service & Expenses  
  
    * Staffing and Levels of Service including encouraging of women and  
    minority business and equal opportunity goals  
  
    * Operating Standards for McCaw Hall  
  
    * Management of and recommendation for uses of any endowment funds  
    (when such are received)  
  
    * Management of fund balances (if any)  
  
    * McCaw Hall Booking Policies  
  
    The Director will review the recommendations of the MOB in good  
    faith, will not unreasonably withhold approval or recommendation of  
    the same to the Mayor and City Council, and will respond in a manner  
    that acknowledges and values the historical relationship between the  
    City and the Resident Entities; that recognizes the world-class  
    reputation of the Resident Entities and as such, their importance to  
    a healthy arts community; and that honors the profound working  
    relationship developed for the funding of the McCaw Hall renovation.  
  
    12.  McCaw Hall shall be operated for the benefit of the three  
    parties.  As specified in Business Term 3, below, the City shall  
    sustain its commitment to support the operation of McCaw Hall.  Any  
    net revenue resulting from third-party use of McCaw Hall shall be  
    applied toward operation and maintenance of McCaw Hall.  The Resident  
    Entities shall reimburse Seattle Center for those expenses, as  
    determined by the MOB, that are not included in their annual use fees  
    and are required for their respective productions.  
  
    13.  The City intends to develop an asset preservation strategy and  
    establish a capital reserve account for the purpose of restoring and  
    refurbishing McCaw Hall to preserve the capital investment made  
    therein.  
  
    14.  Each Resident Entity commits to the use of McCaw Hall as its  
    primary venue for the presentation of its regular season  
    performances.  The number of performances may vary from year to year.  
    This commitment of the Resident Entities does not preclude  
    performances by either of them in other venues, whether local,  
    national or international.  
  
    15.  In conformity with the booking policies adopted by the MOB,  
    Resident Entities will share first priority in the use of each and  
    all spaces in McCaw Hall and in booking dates; other users will be  
    scheduled around use by the Resident Entities.  Resident Entities  
    recognize that Seattle Center will rent space in McCaw Hall in  
    accordance with booking policies developed by the MOB when neither  
    Resident Entity is using the particular space.  
  
    The Business Terms of this Agreement are:  
  
    1. Condition and Delivery of McCaw Hall.  
  
    Each Resident Entity agrees to accept McCaw Hall in its renovated  
    condition, provided it is constructed substantially in conformance  
    with the plans and specifications for the renovation approved by the  
    Performance Hall Executive Leadership Team.  The City shall enforce  
    and pass through, as appropriate, to the Resident Entities liquidated  
    damages proceeds from the construction contractor and collected by  
    the City in the event McCaw Hall is not substantially complete by  
    June 20, 2003, and financial loss is experienced by one or both of  
    the Resident Entities.  
  
    2.  Agreement Term.  
  
    The term of this Agreement is 25 years with two 15-year renewal  
    options.  Twenty-four months prior to the expiration of the original  
    25-year term and, again, 24 months prior to the expiration of the  
    first extended term (if such option has been exercised), Seattle  
    Center shall notify the Resident Entities of the impending  
    termination of this Agreement.  If either Resident Entity does not  
    wish to extend the term of this Agreement, it shall so notify Seattle  
    Center no less than eighteen months prior to such expiration date.  
    If both Resident Entities fail to give such notice, this Agreement  
    shall automatically be extended for 15 years.  If either Resident  
    Entity declines to extend the term of this Agreement, then this  
    Agreement shall terminate five years from the next date for  
    termination set forth herein.  In such event, the City shall  
    negotiate a new agreement to ensure that the remaining Resident  
    Entity remains, to the extent practicable, in as nearly the same  
    position with regard to McCaw Hall as it is under this Agreement.  
  
    3.  Operating Budget / Debt Service / Use Fees.  
  
      A.  Operating Budget  
  
    The annual Operating Budget for McCaw Hall shall include the  
    operating expense line items identified on the attached Exhibit A.  
    Seattle Center shall supply central services to McCaw Hall,  
    including, among other things, event booking, marketing, computer  
    services, fiscal services, Seattle Center administration and campus  
    maintenance and landscaping services, but such services shall not be  
    included in the annual operating budget.  
  
      B.  Use Fees  
  
    Except as provided below in the case of an annual net operating loss,  
    the City shall provide "Direct Operating Support" to McCaw Hall of  
    not more than the following amounts:  
  
    YEAR  
  
    AMOUNT  
  
    2003 (6 months)  
  
    $253,280  
  
    2004  
  
    $442,208  
  
    Commencing January 2005, and in each January thereafter throughout  
    the term of this Agreement, the City's Direct Operating Support shall  
    be that amount set forth above for 2004 adjusted annually to reflect  
    increases in the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton All-Urban Consumers CPI All  
    Items (1982-84=Base).  
  
    The Resident Entities shall each pay the City an annual fee for the  
    use of McCaw Hall in such amount as, when added to the City's Direct  
    Operating Support and the other building revenues enumerated in  
    Exhibit A, will project a balanced / break-even budget at each year  
    end.  In determining the amount of such fees, Seattle Center shall  
    reasonably estimate the building revenues and expenses for each  
    calendar year and propose use fees based on these estimates.  The MOB  
    will have an opportunity to review these estimates and agree to them.  
    If, in any year, due to a reduction in performances by a Resident  
    Entity or failure of the City to license a reasonable number of open  
    dates to other users, it is anticipated that a Resident Entity's use  
    fees will be greater than twenty-five percent (25%) of the entire  
    Operating Budget for that year, and upon request of the MOB, the  
    parties agree to re-open negotiation of this paragraph to explore and  
    find a mutually acceptable method for distributing operating  
    expenses.  
  
    If, in any year, the McCaw Hall operating revenues together with the  
    City's Direct Operating Support exceed the building's operating  
    expenses, such excess revenue may be applied to the McCaw Hall  
    operating fund to reduce each of the Resident Entities' use fees for  
    the following year by a total of 50% of the excess and to reduce the  
    City's Direct Operating Support by 50% of the excess, or as otherwise  
    determined by the MOB.  
  
    If, in any year, the McCaw Hall operating expenses exceed the  
    building's operating revenues together with the City's Direct  
    Operating Support, then the City's Direct Operating Support for the  
    following year shall increase by 50% of the loss, and the Resident  
    Entities shall pay the City during that year, for deposit into the  
    Operating Fund, the remaining 50%, which shall be derived from (i)  
    increased Resident Entity use fees; (ii) application of any of the  
    operating fund balance, if one exists; and/or (iii) additional  
    funding sources identified by the MOB.  
  
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Resident Entities shall not be  
    required to compensate the City for any net operating loss if and to  
    the extent such loss is attributable to a Force Majeure event.  For  
    purposes of this agreement, a "Force Majeure" event means an event  
    outside the reasonable control of the parties or their agents.  
  
      C.  Debt Service Re-opener.  
  
    The Resident Entities acknowledge that the City has put short-term  
    financing in place in order to complete the construction of McCaw  
    Hall, the costs of which are included in the total capital budget.  
    It is recognized that this short-term financing must be retired,  
    renewed, or replaced by July of 2005.  The Resident Entities agree to  
    work with the City to find solutions to any shortfall in capital  
    funding that may exist at that time, including, but not limited to,  
    and in priority order: 1) completion of full funding participation by  
    State and County governments; and 2) exploration and identification  
    of other public or private capital funding sources, excluding any use  
    of City of Seattle General Fund.  
  
    The parties agree to renegotiate the specific terms of this Agreement  
    that are affected by any capital funding shortfall and funding  
    decisions prior to July of 2005.  If the parties cannot reach  
    agreement on a satisfactory mechanism for addressing such shortfall  
    then the City or the Resident Entities shall have the right to  
    terminate this agreement upon one year's written notice.  
  
    So long as debt service remains outstanding on the building, the City  
    agrees that raising the full amount of funds originally anticipated  
    from public sources will remain a top priority for the City's  
    legislative agenda with the federal, state and county governments and  
    the Resident Entities agree to participate in that process.  
  
    4.  McCaw Hall Funds / Separate Subfund.  
  
    The City shall place all revenues derived from the operation of McCaw  
    Hall into a separate, interest-bearing Subfund, and operational  
    expenses for McCaw Hall shall be paid out of such Subfund.  
  
    5.  Uses of Space and Schedule.  
  
    Y  The MOB will develop, for adoption by the City, policies for using  
    and scheduling space in McCaw Hall that are clear and comprehensive.  
    Resident Entities will have priority for use of each and every space  
    in McCaw Hall and first choice of dates for using McCaw Hall.  The  
    MOB will develop a booking and priority policy that shall be appended  
    to this Agreement without the need for formal amendment, which  
    ensures these goals are met, and balances the needs of both Resident  
    Entities.  
  
    * The agreed-upon use dates for each Resident Entity will be detailed  
    in facility use agreements for each Resident Entity.  
  
    * In recognition of the City's Direct Operating Support to McCaw  
    Hall, Seattle Center shall have the right to use McCaw Hall for the  
    duration of the Seattle International Children's Festival, the  
    Folklife Festival, Bumbershoot and for Seattle Center-produced  
    community events, for up to fourteen (14) total days per year, with  
    no payment of rent into the McCaw Hall operating budget, and with  
    expenses accounted for outside of the McCaw Hall operating budget.  
    Such use shall be in recognition of and subject to the McCaw Hall  
    booking policies.  
  
    6.  Direct Event Expenses.  
  
    Y  The MOB will develop and recommend to the Director direct event  
    operating standards and a schedule of associated costs for the  
    following ("Direct Event Expenses"):  
  
    Front of House staff  
  
    Event Attendants  
  
    Technical staff  
  
    Equipment use  
  
    Stage door security  
  
    The cost of standard stage or communications equipment, insurance,  
    utilities, cleaning, maintenance, and repair are intentionally  
    excluded from Direct Event Expenses.  
  
    Y  Each Resident Entity's Direct Event Expenses will be calculated on  
    the services it actually uses, at staffing levels agreed upon by the  
    MOB and as required to directly support each event.  
  
    * Seattle Center will develop an estimated annual operating budget in  
    a detailed line item format, including estimated Direct Event  
    Expenses, for the Resident Entities' next fiscal year for each  
    Resident Entity, based upon projected usage of McCaw Hall by each  
    Resident Entity and will submit copies to each Resident Entity and  
    the MOB no later than October 1 of each year for their review and  
    approval prior to the budget being presented to the City Council.  In  
    setting this time frame, the parties recognize the City's biennial  
    budgeting process and the need to make budget projections two and  
    one-half years prior to each season.  Such projections submitted to  
    the City Council will include estimated revenues and staff positions  
    and total expenditure requests.  The budget will include all use  
    fees, labor rates and proposed equipment charges.  
  
    * Resident Entities shall pay their estimated Direct Event Expenses  
    periodically as described in their respective facility use  
    agreements.  Within 30 days following each production, Seattle Center  
    will provide a statement of actual Direct Event Expenses incurred for  
    such production.  On or before 90 days after the end of each calendar  
    year, Seattle Center will deliver to each Resident Entity a certified  
    statement of actual Direct Event Expenses showing expenses, dates,  
    and rates on a detailed line item basis.  If the annual statement  
    shows an overpayment, it will be accompanied by a check in the amount  
    of the overpayment, or be credited against the next fiscal year's  
    advance payment; if the annual statement shows an underpayment by a  
    Resident Entity, such Resident Entity shall pay Seattle Center the  
    deficit within 30 days of receipt of the annual statement.  
  
    7.  Fixed Operating Costs, Operating Standards for McCaw Hall.  
  
    As part of the City's budget process, with final authorization for  
    staff positions and expenditures residing with the Mayor and the City  
    Council, the MOB will recommend to the Director the levels of fixed  
    facility staffing necessary for the management and operation of McCaw  
    Hall.  The MOB will also all recommend to the Director operating  
    standards for McCaw Hall, which shall be reviewed annually with a  
    mechanism for changes to be made if they are not satisfactory to the  
    Resident Entities.  The Operating Standards will apply to McCaw Hall  
    for all uses.  
  
    Operating standards will be set for:  
  
    A.  Front of House  
  
    Y  Maintenance and janitorial level of service  
  
    Y  Catering and concessions level of service and staffing  
  
    Y  Use of public areas (such as art in the lobby)  
  
    Y  Restrictions for non-resident users of the space  
  
    Y  Box office operations and staffing  
  
    Y  Storage spaces and usage  
  
    Y  Use of exterior signage as well as the ability to market and  
    promote future shows in interior spaces  
  
    B.  Backstage  
  
    Y  Maintenance and janitorial level of service  
  
    Y  Staffing levels, level of service, and standards of service  
  
    Y  Restrictions for non-resident uses of the space  
  
    Y  Storage spaces and usage  
  
    * House hang locations  
  
    * House inventory (such as equipment, soft goods, lighting)  
  
    Y  Resident Entities' exclusive use spaces and restrictions upon  
    access to such spaces.  
  
    Other than reasonable repairs made to comply with these established  
    levels of maintenance, Seattle Center may not make modifications,  
    alterations or repairs which decrease the ability of either Resident  
    Entity to operate within McCaw Hall or increase the cost of either  
    Resident Entity's operations within McCaw Hall in any material  
    respect without the approval of each Resident Entity, except that  
    Seattle Center may make emergency repairs without prior approval, and  
    shall inform the Resident Entities of such emergencies and the  
    completed repairs within twenty-four (24) hours thereafter.  All  
    repairs will be scheduled to minimize interference with the Resident  
    Entities' scheduled use of McCaw Hall.  
  
    The MOB shall be responsible for oversight and enforcement of the  
    Operating Standards in accordance with all applicable laws.  
  
    8.  Major Maintenance Responsibilities.  
  
    Seattle Center shall be responsible for the maintenance, repair and  
    replacement of the exterior of McCaw Hall including, but not limited  
    to, roofs, walls, foundations, structures and structural elements,  
    all areas immediately adjacent thereto and all campus systems serving  
    the building so that they are in good working order and repair.  At  
    such time that any redevelopment of Mercer Arts Arena occurs, the  
    City shall insure that any use or construction that could interfere  
    or compete with the performance standards of McCaw Hall shall be  
    taken under consideration and mitigated in coordination with the  
    Resident Entities.  
  
    9.  Capital Improvements Reserve Fund.  
  
    It is the intent of the parties to this Agreement to create a fund,  
    with annual contributions, for the purpose of implementing major  
    maintenance and preservation of this premier City asset.  The City's  
    contribution to this fund shall be consistent with any adopted  
    policies regarding asset preservation.  Any party may propose capital  
    improvements at any time.  The MOB will recommend all capital  
    improvements to be made to McCaw Hall.  Seattle Center will submit to  
    the MOB in writing, and in reasonable detail, cost estimates and  
    proposed work schedules for any capital improvements under  
    consideration by the MOB.  Approved capital improvements will be made  
    as funds are available.  Any capital projects funded from this fund  
    shall be subject to Seattle Center's reasonable project management  
    charges.  
  
    10.  Equipment Rentals and Equipment Replacement Account.  
  
    The MOB will recommend a long-range replacement schedule based on the  
    useful lives of the theatrical and other equipment.  Resident  
    Entities will not pay equipment rental fees for each individual  
    event.  Seattle Center will, however, charge third-party users for  
    equipment rented whenever such charge can be included as part of the  
    negotiations to obtain an event.  Any third-party rental fees will be  
    held in the McCaw Hall Subfund, accounted for separately from other  
    revenues, and used solely for the purchase of new or replacement  
    theatrical and other equipment.  
  
    11.  Special Events.  
  
    When a Resident Entity is not using the auditorium, and subject to  
    the established booking policies, each Resident Entity will be able  
    to use portions of McCaw Hall outside the auditorium including, but  
    not limited to, lobbies, catering areas, lecture space(s), donor  
    rooms, rehearsal spaces, and box office, for use fees to be  
    established for each specific use.  Otherwise, all such spaces shall  
    be included with the use of the auditorium, if needed.  The gift shop  
    is solely for the use of the Resident Entities and is not subject to  
    any separate use fee.  
  
    12.  Service Providers.  
  
    The MOB will recommend to the Director the ticket providers,  
    concession vendors and caterers for McCaw Hall, and no service  
    provider for McCaw Hall shall be selected by the Director who has  
    been disapproved by either Resident Entity, in its reasonable  
    discretion.  The MOB will also recommend the terms, levels of  
    service, cost structure and performance standards for the ticket  
    providers, concession vendors, caterers and all other service  
    providers to McCaw Hall.  
  
    13.      Allocation of Liability.  
  
    Each Resident Entity will be liable only for its own acts or  
    omissions.  
  
    14.  Further Agreements.  
  
    In consultation with the City's Law Department, the Director is  
    authorized to enter into individual facility use agreements with each  
    of the Resident Entities, that are consistent with this Agreement and  
    which establish other specific terms and conditions necessary for the  
    use of McCaw Hall, including such items as dates and times of usage,  
    annual use fees, Insurance, Indemnification, and damage and  
    destruction.  
  
    SEATTLE CENTER        PACIFIC NORTHWEST BALLET ASSN.  
  
    By____________________      By________________________  
  
    Virginia Anderson, Director  
  
    SEATTLE OPERA  
  
    By____________________  
  
    EXHIBIT A  
  
    Operating Budget Line Item Detail  
  
    REVENUES  
  
    Rent from non-Resident Entity Users  
  
      McCaw Hall  
  
      Lecture Hall  
  
      Front of House Spaces  
  
    Reimbursed Labor  
  
      Non-Resident Entity Users  
  
      Resident Entities  
  
    Food and Beverage  
  
      Concessions  
  
      Catering  
  
    Ancillary Revenues from non-Resident Entity Users  
  
      Equipment Rental (to replacement fund)  
  
      Ticketing Revenues  
  
      Program / Novelty Revenues  
  
    Resident Group User Fees for operating expenses  
  
      Opera  
  
      Ballet  
  
    Annual City of Seattle Direct Operating Support  
  
    Other  
  
    EXPENSES  
  
    Direct Event Labor:  Admissions, Stage, Sound, Event Security, Event  
    Attendants  
  
      Non-Resident Entity Events  
  
      Resident Entity Events  
  
    Utilities  
  
      Electricity  
  
      Water / Sewage  
  
      Garbage / Recycling  
  
      Gas Allocation (Central Plant)  
  
    Direct Facility Fixed Costs  
  
      Janitorial  
  
      Maintenance:  Laborers, Electricians, Carpenters, Engineers,  
    Plumbers, Painters, Metal Fabricators  
  
      Management; administrative staff permanently assigned to building  
  
      Technical Staff:  Stage, sound  
  
      Stage Door Security  
  
    Equipment Replacement (from replacement fund)  
  
    Elevator Maintenance  
  
    Kitchen Equipment Loan Payments  
  
      1  
  
    t  
