* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114642**   
**Ordinance Number: 121238**  
  
* * * * *  
  
An Ordinance Appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and ordering the payment thereof.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 28, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: Wills)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 31, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 31, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 28, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** FINANCE  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and ordering the  
    payment thereof.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    SECTION 1.  Payment of the sum of Twelve Million, Eighteen Thousand, Four  
    Hundred Ninety Five and 77/100 dollars ($12,018,495.77) on Summit mechanical  
    checks numbered, 4000703118 - 4000705609, plus manual or cancellation issues for  
    claims, and Electronic Financial Transactions (EFT) in the amount of Thirty Six  
    Million, Three Hundred Fifty Six Thousand, Eight Hundred Fifty Three and 63/100  
    dollars, ($36,356,853.63) are presented for ratification by the City Council per  
    Chapter 42.23 RCA.  
  
    SECTION 2.  Payment of the sum of Twenty Five Million, Fifty Nine Thousand, Four  
    Hundred Seventy Nine and 95/100 dollars ($25,059,479.95) on City General Salary  
    Fund mechanical checks numbered 50786340- 50788923 plus manual checks, agencies  
    checks, and direct deposits numbered 300001 - 309435 representing Gross Payrolls  
    for payroll ending date July 15, 2003 as detailed in the Payroll Summary Report  
    for claims against the City which were audited by the Auditing Committee and  
    reported by said committee to the City Council on July 24, 2003 consistent with  
    appropriations heretofore made for such purpose from the appropriate Funds, is  
    hereby approved.  
  
    SECTION 3.  That any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    SECTION 4.  This ordinance, being an ordinance required for the payment of  
    salaries or current expenses, shall take effect and be in force immediately upon  
    its approval, if approved by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect at the  
    time it shall become a law under the provisions of the City Charter.  
  
    Passed by the City Council on the 28h day of July. 2003 and signed by me in open  
    session in authentication of its passage this July 28, 2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    President ___________ of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___.  
    ___________________________________  
    Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___  
    ___________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    July 28, 2003  
