* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114671**   
**Ordinance Number: 121267**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the sale of surplus property located in the 7300 block of 39th Avenue Northeast; authorizing the sale of real property to an abutting property owner and execution of a Quitclaim Deed in connection therewith; and designating the disposition of sales proceeds.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 8, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Drago, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 17, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 2, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** SALES, WEDGEWOOD  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114671.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114671  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the sale of surplus property located in the  
    7300 block of 39th Avenue Northeast; authorizing the sale of real  
    property to an abutting property owner and execution of a Quitclaim  
    Deed in connection therewith; and designating the disposition of  
    sales proceeds.  
  
    WHEREAS, the City of Seattle acquired certain property described  
    below through a Local Improvement District foreclosure in 1983, with  
    the Local Improvement Assessment Deed to the City of Seattle having  
    been recorded under the King County Auditor's Recording No.  
    830511807; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the availability of the property has been circulated to City  
    departments and public  agencies as excess to the City's Fleets and  
    Facilities Department needs and no City department or other public  
    agency has indicated interest in assuming jurisdiction over said  
    property; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the property described below is considered excess to City  
    needs; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the property is subject to driveway easement for access; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Purchaser Corey Nelson, the owner of Lot 18 located to  
    the north and abutting said City property, has asked to purchase said  
    property; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City's Fleets and Facilities Department has notified the  
    owners of all adjoining lots of the proposed transaction and has  
    received no objections; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The real property legally described as follows:  
  
    The South 16 feet of Lot 18, Block 1 of the Medohart Addition to the  
    City of Seattle, as per plat recorded in Volume 23 of Plats, Page 10,  
    records of the King County Auditor, the whole thereof subject to an  
    easement for ingress and egress for alley purposes in favor of the  
    owners of Lots 1, 2, 3, 18, 19, and 20 of Block 1 of said Medohart  
    Addition.  
  
    is hereby declared to be surplus.  
  
    Section 2.  The Fleets and Facilities Department  ("Director") is  
    hereby authorized to sell the property described in Section 1 above  
    for the total price of $5,000 and to execute and deliver, for and on  
    behalf of The City of Seattle, a Quitclaim Deed in substantially the  
    form attached hereto as "Exhibit A."  The Director is further  
    authorized to execute such other documents as necessary to complete  
    this transaction.  
  
    Section 3.  Proceeds from the sale authorized herein shall be  
    deposited in the Unrestricted Subaccount of the Cumulative Reserve  
    Subfund (00164) in accordance with Seattle Municipal Code 5.80.030,  
    to be appropriated consistent with Council Resolution 30379.  
  
    Section 4.  Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 5.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal  
    Code Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of _________________, 2003.  
  
    _____________________________________  
  
                President _______ of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2003.  
  
    _____________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2003  
  
    _____________________________________  
  
                City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Exhibit A:  Quitclaim Deed  
  
    David Hemmelgarn/mr  
  
    39thAveNE-Ord.doc  
  
    07/24/03  
  
    version 1  
  
    - 1 -  
  
    PRELIMINARY REPORT  
  
    EVALUATION OF REUSE AND DISPOSAL OPTIONS FOR  
  
  
    PMA No. 1579 - South of and Adjoining 7344 39th Ave. NE  
  
  
    In Resolution 29799, City Council expressed its desire for the  
    Executive to make recommendations on the reuse or disposal of excess  
    property on a case by case basis, using the Procedures for Evaluation  
    of the Reuse and Disposal of the City's Real Property included in  
    that resolution.  Additionally, the Resolution identified guidelines  
    for items to be considered in making a recommendation.  This report  
    addresses each of the guidelines outlined in Resolution 29799.  
  
    Property Management Area:  PMA No. 1579 - South of and  
    adjoining 7344 39th Ave. NE  
  
  
  
    BACKGROUND INFORMATION  
  
  
  
  
    Legal Description:  
  
    The South 16 feet of Lot 18, Block 1, of the Medohart Addition to the  
    City of Seattle, as per plat recorded in Volume 23 of Plats, page 10,  
    records of the King County Auditor, the whole thereof subject to an  
    easement for ingress and egress for alley purposes in favor of the  
    owners of Lots 1, 2, 3, 18, 19, and 20 of Block 1 of said Medohart  
    Addition.  
  
    Physical Description and Related Factors:  This city-owned  
    parcel is a 16-foot by 127.5-foot strip of land located immediately  
    south and adjacent to the property identified by a street address of  
    7344 39th Avenue NE, Seattle, WA 98115.  It comprises a total of  
    2,032 SF.   Since 1950, this land - the south 16 feet of  Lot 18 -  
    has been subject to an easement and used as an access driveway  
    leading east from 39th Ave NE to the platted alley lying behind Lots  
    18, 19, and 20 and 1, 2, and 3 of the Medohart Addition.  The  
    property continues to be subject to this easement for ingress and  
    egress and such has never been extinguished.  The travel surface of  
    the driveway is mainly mud and spotty gravel and is amply potholed,  
    particularly for the first 50 feet as it leaves 39th Avenue NE and  
    proceeds at a 30% grade to the alley.  It is located in a middle-  
    class neighborhood with a diverse mix of housing, mainly well-kept  
    homes, in a SF 5000 zone.  It is identified by the King County  
    Assessor as Tax Parcel No. 5543030-0091.  
  
    GUIDELINE A:  Consistency  
  
    The analysis should consider the purpose for which the property  
    was originally acquired, funding sources used to acquire the  
    property, terms and conditions of original acquisition, the title or  
    deed conveying the property, or any other contract or instrument by  
    which the City is bound or to which the property is subject, and  
    City, state or federal ordinances, statutes and regulations.  
  
    Following a Local Improvement District foreclosure in 1983, the City  
    used General Fund monies to purchase the property from King County,  
    with the deed to the City filed under Auditor's Recording No.  
    830511807.  This parcel is identified as General Municipal Purpose  
    property.  
  
  
  
    Guideline B:  Compatibility and Suitability  
  
  
    The recommendation should reflect an assessment of the potential  
    for use of the property in support of adopted Neighborhood Plans, as  
    or in support of low-income housing, in support of economic  
    development, in support of affordable housing, for park or open  
    space, in support of Sound Transit Link Light Rail station area  
    development, as or in support of child care facilities, and in  
    support of other priorities reflected in adopted City policies.  
  
    Context.  The property is located in the View Ridge  
    neighborhood in northeast Seattle. It is not located within a  
    designated neighborhood planning area.  Therefore, it has not been  
    identified as a property desired or needed for the implementation of  
    a community plan or project.  Since it is subject to an easement for  
    ingress and egress in favor of six lot owners, it is doubtful that  
    said easement will ever be extinguished.  The subject parcel is small  
    in size and not appropriately located for consideration or use in  
    support of any of the aforementioned city policies or programs.  It  
    is not located within a Sound Transit planning area.  
  
    Range of Options.  Options include retention by the City,  
    negotiated sale, or sale by public bid.  No other City department has  
    identified any current or future use for the property.   Given the  
    limited potential for any kind of redevelopment of this small and  
    easement-encumbered property, retention of the property presents no  
    benefits to or conceivable use for the City.  The proposed purchaser  
    approached the City, resulting in a negotiated sale.  However, the  
    City did notify the owners of all adjoining lots of the proposed  
    transaction, and none expressed interest in the property.  
  
    Guideline C:  Other Factors  
  
    The recommendation should consider the highest and best use of the  
    property, compatibility of the proposed use with the physical  
    characteristics of the property and with surrounding uses, timing and  
    term of the proposed use, appropriateness of the consideration to be  
    received, unique attributes that make the property hard to replace,  
    potential for consolidation with adjacent public property to  
    accomplish future goals and objectives, conditions in the real estate  
    market, and known environmental factors that may affect the value of  
    the property.  
  
    Highest and Best Use:  The zoning designation for the property  
    is SF 5000 - Single Family Residential - minimum lot size of 5,000  
    square feet.  The best and most appropriate use for this property is  
    in support of single-family residential development.  Since the  
    parcel is subject to an easement for driveway purposes, the only  
    allowable use is as an easement for ingress and egress.  
  
    Compatibility with the physical characteristics:  Sale of the  
    property to the abutting property owner will allow for the  
    improvement of the access road as the abutting owner develops his lot  
    with a new single-family residence.  
  
    Compatibility with surrounding uses:  
  
    The property is currently used as alley/roadway.  The immediate  
    neighborhood is zoned Single Family Residential. Sale of the property  
    will result in improvement of the access driveway by the purchaser.  
  
  
  
    Potential for Consolidation with adjacent public property:  
  
  
    The property was originally acquired as part of an LID  
    foreclosure.  There are no public properties in the vicinity that  
    could benefit from a consolidation with this parcel.  It is not  
    needed for any public right-of-way.  
  
  
  
    Timing and Term of Proposed Use:  
  
  
    The proposed purchaser has already begun construction of a new  
    residence on the adjoining lot (Lot 18) and is motivated to improve  
    the easement not only to facilitate access during development and  
    construction but also to create a vastly improved and landscaped  
    access driveway for his lot and the other benefited lots.  
  
  
  
    Appropriateness of the consideration:  
  
  
    Due to the size of the property, it has not been appraised.  The  
    consideration for the transfer is based partly on the value  
    established by the King County Assessor for properties in the area  
    but is also controlled by zoning designation and neighborhood  
    influences.  The assessed value for this subject is $7,000.   A 2,030  
    SF small parcel like PMA No. 1579 cannot be built upon and can only  
    be used as a driveway easement.  Property of this nature is  
    considered useless and undevelopable and is usually valued at no more  
    than $2.00 per square foot.  Accordingly, the proposed consideration  
    of $5,000 is a fair amount to be obtained from the Purchaser.  
  
    Unique Attributes:  The subject parcel is presently being used  
    as an alley/driveway easement by the prospective purchaser and five  
    other lot-owners.  
  
  
  
    Conditions in the real estate market: The real estate market in  
    northeast Seattle has retained its value throughout the ongoing  
    economic downturn.  Obviously, parcels encumbered by easements have  
    diminished value.  
  
    Known environmental factors: There are no environmental factors  
    that would prevent a transfer of property.  A preliminary field visit  
    indicated no cause for testing.  Purchase and use of the site by the  
    adjoining property owner is the most reasonable manner of sale and it  
    will result in improvement of the easement driveway.  
  
    Guideline D:  Sale  
  
  
  
    The recommendation should evaluate the potential for selling the  
    property to non-City public entities and to members of the general  
    public.  
  
    Information concerning the availability of the property was  
    circulated to all City departments and other public agencies that may  
    have an interest in publicly-owned property.  This circulation took  
    place in November 2002.  No agency has expressed any interest in  
    acquiring the property.  The Fleets and Facilities Department mailed  
    written notification of the City's intention to sell the property to  
    all six property owners within 300 feet of PMA No. 1579.  The  
    notification also indicated that the easement would remain in place  
    so as not to limit access.  The City received no statements of  
    concern or additional bids for the property.  
  
    Recommendation  
  
    FFD recommends that sale of the property to the adjoining  
    landowner be approved by the City Council.  
  
    PROPERTY REVIEW PROCESS DETERMINATION FORM  
  
    Property Name:  
  
    Vacant Access parcel  
  
    Address:  
  
    South of and adjoining 7344 39th Ave. NE  
  
    PMA ID:  
  
    1579  
  
           Subject Parcel #:  
  
    1387  
  
    Dept./Dept ID:  
  
    FFD  
  
    Current Use:  
  
    None; subject to access easement  
  
    Area (Sq. Ft.):  
  
    2,032  
  
    Zoning:  
  
    SF 5000  
  
    Est. Value:  
  
    $5,000  
  
    Assessed Value:  
  
    $7,000  
  
    PROPOSED USES AND RECOMMENDED USE  
  
    Department/Governmental Agencies:  
  
    Proposed Use:  
  
    None  
  
    None  
  
    Other Parties wishing to acquire:  
  
    Proposed Use:  
  
    None  
  
    None  
  
    RES'S RECOMMENDED USE:  
  
    Sell to adjoining property owner who will improve driveway easement.  
  
    PROPERTY REVIEW PROCESS DETERMINATION (circle appropriate response)  
  
    1.) Is more than one City dept/Public Agency wishing to acquire?  
  
    No / Yes  
  
    15  
  
    2.) Are there any pending community proposals for Reuse/ Disposal?  
  
    No / Yes  
  
    10  
  
    3.) Have citizens, community groups and/or other interested parties  
    contacted the City regarding any of the proposed options?  
  
    No / Yes  
  
    10  
  
    4.) Will consideration be other than cash?  
  
    No / Yes  
  
    10  
  
    5.) Is Sale or Trade to a private party being recommended?  
  
    No / Yes  
  
    25  
  
    6.) Will the proposed use require changes in zoning/other regulations  
  
    No / Yes  
  
    20  
  
    7.) Is the estimated Fair Market Value between $250,000-$1,000,000?  
  
    No / Yes  
  
    10  
  
    8.) Is the estimated Fair Market Value over $1,000,000?  
  
    No/ Yes  
  
    45  
  
                              Total Number of Points Awarded for "Yes"  
    Responses:  
  
    35  
  
    Property Classification for purposes of Disposal review:     Simple  
    /   Complex (circle one)  (a score of 45+ points results in "Complex"  
    classification)  
  
    Signature: __David Hemmelgarn      Department: FFD/RES  
    Date: _02/26/03  
  
    ATTACHMENT A  
  
      1  Attachment A - 39th Ave. NE  
  
        ATTACHMENT A  
  
        ATTACHMENT A - 39th Ave. NE  
