* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114667**   
**Ordinance Number: 121359**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Seattle Municipal Code Sections 23.41.012, 23.47.012, 23.48.010, 23.50.020, 23.50.026, 23.50.028, 23.54.015, 23.54.035, 23.84.032 and 23.86.006 to address the unique needs or features of biotech uses in South Lake Union, and to correct minor errors and omissions.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 8, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 ( Excused: Compton, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 17, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 17, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 2, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, LAND-USE-PLANNING, SOUTH-LAKE-UNION, DEVELOPMENT-ACTIVITIES, BUSINESS-ENTERPRISES  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114667.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114667  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Seattle  
    Municipal Code Sections 23.41.012, 23.47.012, 23.48.010, 23.50.020,  
    23.50.026, 23.50.028, 23.54.015, 23.54.035, 23.84.032 and 23.86.006 to  
    address the unique needs or features of biotech uses in South Lake  
    Union, and to correct minor errors and omissions.  
  
    WHEREAS, the City Council adopted Resolution 30610 affirming the City  
    of Seattle's commitment to making the South Lake Union area the  
    region's most competitive location for biotech research and  
    manufacturing, clean energy, advanced energy technology research,  
    manufacturing and distribution, other high-tech research and  
    manufacturing, and other innovative entrepreneurial high-tech  
    industries; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City Council adopted Resolution 30542 emphasizing the  
    City's commitment to regional economic strategies, including  
    supporting the redevelopment of the South Lake Union area for the  
    regional expansion of the bio-medical and bio-information sectors; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City Council finds that this ordinance should be adopted  
    consistent with the referenced resolutions and for the reasons  
    contained in the Director's Report on the proposed Biotech Related  
    Amendments, August 11, 2003; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Subsection B of Section 23.41.012 of the Seattle Municipal  
    Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 120928, is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    23.41.012  Development standard departures.  
  
    ***  
  
      B.  Departures may be granted from the following requirements:  
  
        1.  Structure width and depth limits;  
  
        2.  Setback requirements;  
  
        3.  Modulation requirements;  
  
        4.  SCM zone facade requirements, including transparency and blank  
    facade provisions;  
  
        5.  Design, location on the lot and access to parking  
    requirements;  
  
        6.  Open space or common recreation area requirements;  
  
        7.  Lot coverage limits;  
  
        8.  Rooftop coverage limits that apply within the South Lake  
    Union Hub Urban Village;  
  
        9.  8. Screening and landscaping requirements;  
  
        10.  9.  Standards for the location and design of  
    nonresidential uses in mixed use buildings;  
  
        11.  10.  Within Urban Centers, in L3 zones only, the  
    pitched roof of a structure, as provided in Section 23.45.009 C, may  
    incorporate additional height of up to twenty (20) percent of the  
    maximum height permitted, as provided in Section  23.45.009 A, subject  
    to the following limitations:  
  
          a.  A pitched roof may not incorporate the additional height if  
    the structure is on a lot abutting or across a street or alley from a  
    single-family residential zone,  
  
          b.  The proposed structure must be compatible with the general  
    development potential anticipated within the zone,  
  
          c.  The additional height must not substantially interfere with  
    views from up-slope properties, and  
  
          d.  No more than one (1) project on one (1) site within each  
    Urban  
  
    Center may incorporate additional height in the pitched roofs of its  
    structures pursuant to this subsection unless development regulations  
    enacted pursuant to a neighborhood planning process allow other  
    projects to incorporate such additional height;  
  
        12.  11.  Building height within the Roosevelt  
    Commercial Core (up to an additional three (3) feet) for properties  
    zoned NC3-65', (Exhibit 23.41.012 A, Roosevelt Commercial Core);  
  
        13.  12.  Building height within the Ballard Municipal  
    Center master plan area, for properties zoned NC3-65', (Exhibit  
    23.41.012 B, Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan Area). The  
    additional height may not exceed nine (9) feet, and may be granted  
    only for townhouses that front a mid-block pedestrian connection or a  
    park identified in the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan;  
  
        14.  13.  Reduction in required parking for ground  
    level retail uses that abut established mid-block pedestrian  
    connections through private property as identified in the "Ballard  
    Municipal Center Master Plan Design Guidelines, 2000." The parking  
    requirement must be no less than the required parking for Pedestrian 1  
    designated  
  
    areas shown in Section  23.47.044 Chart E;  
  
        15.  14.  Downtown or Stadium Transition Overlay  
    District street facade requirements;  
  
        16.  15.  Downtown upper-level development standards;  
  
        17.  16.  Downtown coverage and floor size limits;  
  
        18.  17.  Downtown maximum wall dimensions;  
  
        19.  18.  Downtown street level use requirements;  
  
        20.  19.  Combined coverage of all rooftop features in  
    downtown zones subject to the limitations in Section 23.49.008 C2; and  
  
        21.  20.  Certain conditions to allowance of  
    additional height in DOC 1 and DOC 2 zones pursuant to subsection  
    23.49.008 A 2, as follows:  
  
          a.  Limits on gross floor area of stories under subsection  
    23.49.008 A2a(2); and  
  
          b.  Percentages of lot area that must be occupied by open space  
    or by structures no greater than thirty-five (35) or sixty-five (65)  
    feet in height, under subsection  23.49.008 A2b(1).  
  
        22.  21.  Building height in Lowrise zones, and  
    parking standards of Section  23.54.015 in Midrise and Commercial  
    zones, in order to protect existing trees as provided in Chapter  
    25.11;  
  
        23.  22.  Downtown view corridor and Downtown Green  
    Street requirements to allow open railings on upper level roof decks  
    or rooftop open space to project into the required view corridor or  
    Green Street setback, provided such railings are determined to have a  
    minimal impact on views and meet the requirements of the Building  
    Code; and  
  
        24.  23.  Minor communication utility height limits in  
    downtown zones set forth in SMC Section 23.57.013 B, and  
    telecommunication facilities development standards set forth in  
    Section 23.57.016.  
  
    Section 2.  Subsections A, D and H of Section 23.47.012 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 121051, is  
    amended as follows:  
  
    23.47.012  Structure height and floor area ratio.  
  
      A.  Maximum Height. The maximum structure height for commercial  
    zones shall be thirty (30) feet, forty (40) feet, sixty-five (65)  
    feet, eighty-five (85) feet, one hundred twenty-five (125) feet, or  
    one hundred sixty (160) feet, as designated on the Official Land Use  
    Map, Chapter 23.32. In addition, except that:  
  
        1.  Within the South Lake Union Hub Urban Village, the maximum  
    structure height in commercial zones with sixty-five (65) foot and  
    eighty-five (85) foot height limits may be increased to eighty-five  
    (85) feet and one-hundred and five (105) feet, respectively, provided  
    that:     
  
          a.  a minimum of two (2) floors in the structure have a floor  
    to floor height of at least fourteen (14) feet; and  
  
          b. the additional height is used to accommodate mechanical  
    equipment; and  
  
          c.  the additional height permitted does not allow more than  
    six (6) floors in commercial zones with a sixty-five (65) foot height  
    limit, or more than seven (7) floors in commercial zones with an  
    eighty-five (85) foot height limit.  
  
        2.  m Mixed use structures located in commercial  
    zones with a thirty (30) foot or forty (40) foot height limit may  
    exceed the height limit of the zone according to the provisions of  
    Section 23.47.008.  
  
    ***  
  
      D.  Exemptions from FAR Calculations. The following areas shall be  
    exempted from FAR calculations:  
  
        1.  All gross floor area below grade;  
  
        2.  All gross floor area used for accessory parking.; and  
  
  
        3.  Within the South Lake Union Hub Urban Village, gross floor  
    area occupied by mechanical equipment, up to a maximum of fifteen (15)  
    percent, is exempt from FAR calculations.  The allowance is calculated  
    on the gross floor area of the structure after all exempt space  
    permitted under this subsection is deducted.  Mechanical equipment  
    located on the roof of a structure is not calculated as part of the  
    total gross floor area of a structure.    
  
    ***  
  
      H.  Rooftop Features.  
  
         1.  Smokestacks; chimneys; flagpoles; and religious symbols for  
    religious institutions are exempt from height controls, except as  
    regulated in Chapter 23.64, Airport Height Overlay District, provided  
    they are a minimum of ten (10) feet from any side or rear lot line.  
  
        2.  Open railings, planters, skylights, clerestories, greenhouses,  
    parapets and firewalls may extend no higher than the ridge of a  
    pitched roof as permitted by Section 23.47.012F or up to four (4) feet  
    above the maximum height limit with unlimited rooftop coverage.  
  
        3.  Solar Collectors.  
  
          a.  In zones with height limits of thirty (30) or forty (40)  
    feet, solar collectors may extend up to four (4) feet above the  
    maximum height limit, with unlimited rooftop coverage.  
  
          b.  In zones with height limits of sixty-five (65) feet or more,  
    solar collectors may extend up to seven (7) feet above the maximum  
    height limit, with unlimited rooftop coverage.  
  
        4.  The following rooftop features may extend up to fifteen (15)  
    feet above the maximum height limit, so long as the combined total  
    coverage of all features listed in this subsection does not exceed  
    twenty (20) percent of the roof area or twenty-five (25) percent of  
    the roof area if the total includes stair or elevator penthouses or  
    screened mechanical equipment:  
  
          a.  Solar collectors;  
  
          b.  Stair and elevator penthouses;  
  
          c.  Mechanical equipment;  
  
          d.  Play equipment and open-mesh fencing which encloses it, so  
    long as the fencing is at least fifteen (15) feet from the roof edge;  
    and  
  
          e.  Minor communication utilities and accessory communication  
    devices, except that height is regulated according to the provisions  
    of Section 23.57.012.  
  
        5. Within the South Lake Union Hub Urban Village, at the  
    applicant's option, the combined total coverage of all features listed  
    in subsection H4 may be increased to sixty-five (65) percent of the  
    roof area, provided that the following are satisfied:  
  
          a.  All mechanical equipment is screened; and   
  
          b.  No rooftop features are located closer than ten (10) feet  
    to the roof edge.  
  
        6.  5.  In order to protect solar access for property  
    to the north, the applicant shall either locate the rooftop features  
    listed in this subsection at least ten (10) feet from the north edge  
    of the roof, or provide shadow diagrams to demonstrate that the  
    proposed location of such rooftop features would shade property to the  
    north on January 21st at noon no more than would a structure built to  
    maximum permitted bulk:  
  
          a.  Solar collectors;  
  
          b.  Planters;  
  
          c.  Clerestories;  
  
          d.  Greenhouses;  
  
          e.  Minor communication utilities and accessory communication  
    devices, permitted according to the provisions of Section 23.57.012;  
  
          f.  Nonfirewall parapets;  
  
          g.  Play equipment.  
  
        7.  6.  Structures existing prior to May 10, 1986 may  
    add new or replace existing mechanical equipment up to fifteen (15)  
    feet above the roof elevation of the structure and shall comply with  
    the noise standards of Section 23.47.018.  
  
        8.  7.  For height limits and exceptions for  
    communication utilities and accessory communication devices, see  
    Section 23.57.012.  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 3.  Section 23.48.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    Section was last amended by Ordinance 120928, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.48.010  General structure height.  
  
      A.  Maximum Height. Maximum structure height shall be fifty-five  
    (55) feet, seventy-five (75) feet or one hundred twenty-five  
    (125) feet as designated on the Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32  
    . , except as provided in subsection B of this Section.  
  
      B.  The maximum structure height may be increased from seventy-  
    five (75) feet to eighty-five (85) feet, provided that:     
  
        1.  a minimum of two (2) floors in the structure have a floor  
    to floor height of at least fourteen (14) feet; and  
  
        2. the additional height is used to accommodate mechanical  
    equipment; and  
  
        3.  the additional height permitted does not allow more than  
    seven (7) floors; and  
  
        4.  the height limit provisions of 23.48.016 A1b, Standards  
    applicable to specific areas, are satisfied.  
  
      C.  B.  Pitched Roofs. The ridge of pitched roofs with a  
    minimum slope of six to twelve (6:12) may extend ten (10) feet above  
    the height limit. The ridge of pitched roofs with a minimum slope of  
    four to twelve (4:12) may extend five (5) feet above the height limit  
    (Exhibit 23.48.010 A). No portion of a shed roof shall be permitted to  
    extend beyond the height limit under this provision.  
  
       C. D.  Rooftop Features.  
  
        1.  Smokestacks; chimneys; flagpoles; and religious symbols for  
    religious institutions are exempt from height controls, except as  
    regulated in Chapter 23.64, Airport Height Overlay District, provided  
    they are a minimum of ten (10) feet from any side or rear lot line.  
  
        2.  Open railings, planters, skylights, clerestories, greenhouses,  
    parapets and firewalls may extend up to four (4) feet above the  
    maximum height limit with unlimited rooftop coverage.  
  
        3.  Solar collectors may extend up to seven (7) feet above the  
    maximum height limit, with unlimited rooftop coverage.  
  
        4.  The following rooftop features may extend up to fifteen (15)  
    feet above the maximum height limit, so long as the combined total  
    coverage of all features listed in this subsection D4 does not exceed  
    twenty (20) percent of the roof area, or twenty-five (25) percent of  
    the roof area if the total includes stair or elevator penthouses or  
    screened mechanical equipment:  
  
          a.  Solar collectors;  
  
          b.  Stair and elevator penthouses;  
  
          c.  Mechanical equipment;  
  
          d.  Atriums, greenhouses, and solariums;  
  
          e.  Play equipment and open-mesh fencing which encloses it, as  
    long as the fencing is at least fifteen (15) feet from the roof edge;  
    and  
  
          f.  Minor communication utilities and accessory communication  
    devices, except that height is regulated according to the provisions  
    of Section 23.57.012.  
  
        5.  At the applicant's option, the combined total coverage of  
    all features listed in subsection D4 above may be increased to sixty-  
    five (65) percent of the roof area, provided that all of the following  
    are satisfied:  
  
          a.  All mechanical equipment is screened; and   
  
          b.  No rooftop features are located closer than ten (10) feet  
    to the roof edge.   
  
        5. 6.  In order to protect solar access for property  
    to the north, the applicant shall either locate the rooftop features  
    listed in this subsection D5 at least ten (10) feet from the north  
    edge of the roof, or provide shadow diagrams to demonstrate that the  
    proposed location of such rooftop features would shade property to the  
    north on January 21st at noon no more than would a structure built to  
    maximum permitted bulk:  
  
          a.  Solar collectors;  
  
          b.  Planters;  
  
          c.  Clerestories;  
  
          d.  Atriums, greenhouses and solariums;  
  
          e.  Minor communication utilities and accessory communication  
    devices according to the provisions of Section 23.57.012;  
  
          f.  Nonfirewall parapets;  
  
          g.  Play equipment.  
  
        6. 7.  Screening. Rooftop mechanical equipment and  
    elevator penthouses shall be screened with fencing, wall enclosures,  
    or other structures.  
  
        7. 8.  For height limits and exceptions for  
    communication utilities and accessory communication devices, see  
    Section 23.57.012.  
  
      Section 4.  Subsection A of Section 23.50.020 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 120928, is  
    amended as follows:  
  
    23.50.020  All Industrial zones -- Structure height exceptions and  
    additional restrictions.  
  
      A.  Rooftop Features. Where height limits are otherwise applicable  
    to a structure, and except as provided in subsections C4, D4, E4 and  
    F3 of Section  23.50.024, the following conditions shall  
    apply to rooftop features:  
  
        1.  Smokestacks; chimneys and flagpoles and religious symbols for  
    religious institutions are exempt from height controls, except as  
    regulated in Chapter 23.64, Airport Height Overlay District, provided  
    they are a minimum of ten (10) feet from any side or rear lot line.  
  
        2.  Open railings, planters, skylights, clerestories, greenhouses,  
    parapets and firewalls may extend four (4) feet above the maximum  
    height limit with unlimited rooftop coverage.  
  
        3.  Solar collectors may extend up to seven (7) feet above the  
    maximum height limit, with unlimited rooftop coverage.  
  
        4.  The following rooftop features may extend up to fifteen (15)  
    feet above the maximum height limit, as long as the combined total  
    coverage of all features listed in this subsection does not exceed  
    twenty (20) percent of the roof area, or twenty-five (25) percent of  
    the roof area if the total includes screened mechanical equipment:  
  
          a.  Solar collectors;  
  
          b.  Stair and elevator penthouses;  
  
          c.  Mechanical equipment; and  
  
          d.  Minor communication utilities and accessory communication  
    devices, except that height is regulated according to the provisions  
    of Section 23.57.015.  
  
        5.  Within the South Lake Union Hub Urban Village, at the  
    applicant's option, the combined total coverage of all features listed  
    in subsection A4 above may be increased to sixty-five (65) percent of  
    the roof area, provided that all of the following are satisfied:  
  
          a.  All mechanical equipment is screened; and   
  
          b.  No rooftop features are located closer than ten (10) feet  
    to the roof edge.   
  
    ***  
  
    Section 5.  Section 23.50.026 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    Section was last amended by Ordinance 120609, is amended to add new  
    subsection D as follows:  
  
    23.50.026  Structure height in IC zones.  
  
    ***  
  
      D.  Within the South Lake Union Hub Urban Village, the maximum  
    structure height in IC zones with sixty-five (65) foot and eighty-five  
    (85) foot height limits may be increased to eighty-five (85) feet and  
    one-hundred and five (105) feet, respectively, provided that:     
  
        1.  a minimum of two (2) floors in the structure have a floor  
    to floor height of at least fourteen (14) feet; and  
  
        2. the additional height is used to accommodate mechanical  
    equipment; and  
  
        3.  the additional height permitted does not allow more than  
    six (6) floors in IC zones with a sixty-five (65) foot height limit,  
    or more than seven (7) floors in IC zones with an eighty-five (85)  
    foot height limit.  
  
      Section 6.  Subsection E of Section 23.50.028 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119370, is  
    amended as follows:  
  
    23.50.028  Floor area ratio.  
  
    ***  
  
      E.  All Industrial Zones, Exemptions from FAR Calculations. The  
    following areas shall be exempt from FAR calculations:  
  
        1.  All gross floor area below grade;  
  
        2.  All gross floor area used for accessory parking;  
  
        3.  All gross floor area uses used for mechanical  
    equipment, stair and elevator penthouses and communication equipment  
    and antennas located on the rooftop of structures;  
  
        4.  All gross floor area used for covered rooftop recreational  
    space of a building existing as of December 31, 1998, when complying  
    with the provisions of Section 23.50.012 D.; and  
  
        5.  Within the South Lake Union Hub Urban Village, gross floor  
    area occupied by mechanical equipment, up to a maximum of fifteen (15)  
    percent, is exempt from FAR calculations.  The allowance is calculated  
    on the gross floor area of the structure after all exempt space  
    permitted under this subsection is deducted.  Mechanical equipment  
    located on the roof of a structure is not calculated as part of the  
    total gross floor area of a structure.    
  
      Section 7.  Chart A of Section 23.54.015 of the Seattle Municipal  
    Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 121196, is amended  
    as follows:  
  
                         Chart A for Section 23.54.015  
    PARKING  
  
    Use                         Parking Requirements  
  
    Adult care center1              1 space for each 10 adults (clients) or  
                                    1 space for each staff member, whichever  
                                    is greater; plus 1 loading and unloading  
                                    space for each 20 adults (clients)  
  
    Adult family home               1 space for each dwelling unit  
  
    Adult motion picture theater    1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1  
                                    space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    spectator assembly area not containing  
                                    fixed seats  
  
    Adult panoram                   1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1  
                                    space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    spectator assembly area not containing  
                                    fixed seats  
  
    Airport, land-based (waiting    1 space for each 100 square feet  
    area)  
  
    Airport, water-based (waiting   1 space for each 100 square feet  
    area)  
  
    Animal services                 1 space for each 350 square feet  
  
    Animal husbandry (retail area   1 space for each 350 square feet  
    only)  
  
    Aquaculture (retail area only)  1 space for each 350 square feet  
  
    Artist's studio/dwelling        1 space for each dwelling unit  
  
    Assisted living facility2       1 space for each 4 assisted living units  
                                    plus 1 space for each 2 staff members  
                                    on-site at peak staffing time; plus 1  
                                    barrier-free passenger loading and  
                                    unloading space; plus loading berth  
                                    requirements per Section 23.54.035  
  
    Automotive parts or accessory   1 space for each 350 square feet  
    sales  
  
    Ball courts                     1 space per court  
  
    Bed and breakfast               1 space for each dwelling, plus 1 space  
                                    for each 2 guest rooms or suites  
  
    Bowling alley                   5 spaces for each lane  
  
    Business support services       1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Business incubators             1 space for each 1,000 square feet  
  
    Carwash                         1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Caretaker's quarters            1 space for each dwelling unit  
  
    Cargo terminal                  1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Cemetery                        None  
  
    Child care center1,9            1 space for each 10 children or 1 space  
                                    for each staff member, whichever is  
                                    greater; plus  
                                    1 loading and unloading space for each  
                                    20 children  
  
    Colleges                        A number of spaces equal 15 percent of  
                                    the maximum number of students present  
                                    at peak hour; plus  
                                    30 percent of the number of employees  
                                    present at peak hour; plus  
                                    1 space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    spectator assembly area in outdoor  
                                    spectator sports facilities  
  
    Commercial laundries            1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Commercial moorage              1 space for each 140 lineal feet of  
                                    moorage  
  
    Communication utilities         1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Community centers1,2 and        1 space for each 80 square feet of floor  
    Community clubs1,2              area of all auditoria and public  
                                    assembly rooms not containing fixed  
                                    seats; or 1 space for every 8 fixed  
                                    seats for floor area containing fixed  
                                    seats; or if no auditorium or assembly  
                                    room, 1 space for each 350 square feet,  
                                    excluding ball courts  
    Community centers owned and     1 space for each 555 square feet  
    operated by the Seattle  
    Department of Parks and  
    Recreation (DOPAR)1,2,3  
  
    Congregate residences           1 space for each 4 residents  
  
    Construction services           1 space for each 2,000 square feet.  
  
    Custom and craft work           1 space for each 1,000 square feet  
  
    Dance halls (dance floor and    1 space for each 100 square feet  
    table area)  
  
    Drinking establishment          1 space for each 200 square feet  
  
    Dry storage of boats            1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Family support centers located  1 space for each 100 square feet  
    in community centers owned and  
    operated by the Seattle DOPAR3  
  
    Floating homes                  1 space for each dwelling unit  
  
    Food processing for human       1 space for each 1,000 square feet  
    consumption  
  
    Gas station                     1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    General retail sales and        1 space for each 350 square feet  
    services  
  
    Ground-floor businesses in      None, maximum of 10 spaces  
    multifamily zones  
  
    Heavy commercial services       1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Heliports (waiting area)        1 space for each 100 square feet  
  
    High-impact uses                1 space for each 1,500 square feet or as  
                                    determined by the Director  
  
    Horticultural uses (retail      1 space for each 350 square feet  
    area only)  
  
    Hospitals1                      1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1  
                                    additional space for each 5 employees;  
                                    plus 1 space for each 6 beds  
    Hotels                          1 space for each 4 sleeping rooms or  
                                    suites  
  
    Institute for advanced study1   1 space for each 1,000 square feet of  
                                    administrative offices and similar  
                                    spaces; plus  
                                    1 space for each 10 fixed seats in all  
                                    auditoria and public assembly rooms; or  
                                    1 space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    public assembly area not containing  
                                    fixed seats  
  
    Institutes for advanced study   3.5 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of  
    in single-family zones          office space; plus  
    (existing)                      10 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of  
                                    additional building footprint to house  
                                    and support conference center  
                                    activities; or  
                                    37 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of  
                                    actual conference rooms to be  
                                    constructed, whichever is greater  
  
    Kennel                          1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Lecture and meeting hall        1 space for each 8 fixed seats or  
                                    1 space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    spectator assembly area not containing  
                                    fixed seats  
  
    Library10                       1 space for each 80 square feet of floor  
                                    area of all auditoria and public meeting  
                                    rooms; plus 1 space for each 500 square  
                                    feet of floor area, excluding auditoria  
                                    and public meeting rooms  
  
    Live-work unit                  1 space for each unit; plus the number  
                                    of spaces required for the  
                                    nonresidential portion for live-work  
                                    units greater than 2,500 square feet,  
                                    based on the most similar nonresidential  
                                    use  
  
    Major durables, sales,          1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
    service, and rental  
  
    Manufacturing, general          1 space for each 1,500 square feet  
  
    Manufacturing, heavy            1 space for each 1,500 square feet  
  
    Manufacturing, light            1 space for each 1,500 square feet  
  
    Marine service station          1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Medical services                1 space for each 350 square feet  
  
    Miniature golf                  1 space for each 2 holes  
  
    Mini-warehouse                  1 space for each 30 storage units  
  
    Mobile home park                1 space for each mobile home  
  
    Mortuary services               1 space for each 350 square feet  
  
    Motels                          1 space for each sleeping room or suite  
  
    Motion picture studio           1 space for each 1,500 square feet  
  
    Motion picture theater          1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1  
                                    space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    spectator assembly area not containing  
                                    fixed seats  
  
    Multifamily uses,4 except as    Development sites containing 2-10  
    otherwise provided below13      dwelling units:  
                                    1.1 spaces for each dwelling unit  
                                    Development sites containing 11-30  
                                    dwelling units:  
                                    1.15 spaces for each dwelling unit  
                                    Development sites containing 31-60  
                                    dwelling units:  
                                    1.2 spaces for each dwelling unit  
                                    Development sites containing more than  
                                    60 dwelling units:  
                                    1.25 spaces for each dwelling unit  
                                    In addition, for all multifamily uses  
                                    whose average gross floor area per  
                                    dwelling unit, excluding decks and all  
                                    portions of a structure shared by  
                                    multiple dwelling units, exceeds 500  
                                    square feet, an additional .0002 spaces  
                                    per square foot in excess of 500 shall  
                                    be required up to a maximum additional  
                                    .15 spaces per dwelling unit; and  
                                    When at least 50 percent of the dwelling  
                                    units in a multifamily use have 3  
                                    bedrooms, an additional .25 spaces per  
                                    bedroom for each unit with 3 bedrooms  
                                    shall be required; and  
                                    Any multifamily use that contains a  
                                    dwelling unit with 4 or more bedrooms  
                                    shall be required to provide an  
                                    additional .25 spaces per bedroom for  
                                    each unit with 4 or more bedrooms5  
  
    Multifamily uses containing     1.5 spaces per unit with 2 or more  
    dwelling units with 2 or more   bedrooms. The requirement for units with  
    bedrooms, when within the area  3 or more bedrooms contained above shall  
    impacted by the University of   also apply. All other requirements for  
    Washington as shown on Map A    units with fewer than 2 bedrooms shall  
    following this section, unless  be as contained above5  
    another provision below allows  
    fewer parking spaces  
  
    Multifamily uses, when within   1.5 spaces for each dwelling unit  
    the Alki area as shown on Map  
    B following this section,  
    unless another provision below  
    allows fewer parking spaces  
  
    Multifamily uses, for           1 space for each dwelling unit  
    development sites that contain  
    a total of 10 or fewer  
    dwelling units, all in  
    ground-related structures  
  
    Multifamily uses, when located  0.33 space for each dwelling unit with 2  
    in Center City                  or fewer bedrooms, and 0.5 space for  
    neighborhoods12, for each       each dwelling unit with 3 or more  
    dwelling unit rented to and     bedrooms  
    occupied by a household with  
    an income at time of its  
    initial occupancy at or below  
    30 percent of the median  
    family income, adjusted for  
    household size, for the  
    Seattle-Bellevue-Everett  
    Primary Metropolitan  
    Statistical Area, as defined  
    by the United States  
    Department of Housing and  
    Urban Development (HUD) 14,  
    for the life of the building  
  
    Multifamily uses, when located  0.5 space for each dwelling unit with 2  
    in Center City                  or fewer bedrooms, and 1 space for each  
    neighborhoods12, for each       dwelling unit with 3 or more bedrooms  
    dwelling unit rented to and  
    occupied by a household with  
    an income at time of its  
    initial occupancy of between  
    30 and 50 percent of the  
    median family income, adjusted  
    for household size, for the  
    Seattle-Bellevue-Everett  
    Primary Metropolitan  
    Statistical Area, as defined  
    by HUD14, for the life of the  
    building  
  
    Multifamily uses, when located  0.33 space for each dwelling unit with 2  
    outside of Center City          or fewer bedrooms, and 1 space for each  
    neighborhoods12, for each       dwelling unit with 3 or more bedrooms  
    dwelling unit rented to and  
    occupied by a household with  
    an income at time of its  
    initial occupancy at or below  
    30 percent of the median  
    family income, adjusted for  
    household size, for the  
    Seattle-Bellevue-Everett  
    Primary Metropolitan  
    Statistical Area, as defined  
    by HUD14, for the life of the  
    building  
  
    Multifamily uses, when located  0.75 spaces for each dwelling unit  
    outside of Center City  
    neighborhoods12, for each  
    dwelling unit with 2 or fewer  
    bedrooms rented to and  
    occupied by a household with  
    an income at time of its  
    initial occupancy of between  
    30 and 50 percent of the  
    median family income, adjusted  
    for household size, for the  
    Seattle-Bellevue-Everett  
    Primary Metropolitan  
    Statistical Area, as defined  
    by HUD14, for the life of the  
    building  
  
    Multifamily uses occupied by    1 space for each 6 dwelling units  
    low-income elderly households  
  
    Multifamily uses occupied by    1 space for each 4 dwelling units  
    low-income disabled households  
  
    Multifamily uses occupied by    1 space for each 5 dwelling units  
    low-income elderly/low-income  
    disabled households  
  
    Multifamily uses, when within   1 space for each dwelling unit  
    the Seattle Cascade Mixed zone  
    or the Pike/Pine Overlay  
    District  
  
    Multifamily uses, when within   1 space for every 2 dwelling units  
    the Pike/Pine Overlay  
    District, for each dwelling  
    unit rented to and occupied by  
    a household with an income at  
    time of its initial occupancy  
    at or below 60 percent of the  
    median family income, adjusted  
    for household size, for the  
    Seattle-Bellevue-Everett  
    Primary Metropolitan  
    Statistical Area, as defined  
    by HUD, at rent not exceeding  
    30 percent of 60 percent of  
    median family income, adjusted  
    for household size, for the  
    life of the building  
  
    Multipurpose convenience store  1 space for each 350 square feet  
  
    Museum1                         1 space for each 80 square feet of all  
                                    auditoria and public assembly rooms, not  
                                    containing fixed seats; or 1 space for  
                                    every 10 fixed seats for floor area  
                                    containing fixed seats; plus 1 space for  
                                    each 250 square feet of other gross  
                                    floor area open to the public  
  
    Nonhousehold sales and          1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
    services, except sales,  
    service and rental of office  
    equipment  
  
    Nursing homes6                  1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1  
                                    additional space for each 3 employees;  
                                    plus 1 space for each 6 beds  
  
    Office, administrative          1 space for each 1,000 square feet  
  
    Office, customer service        1 space for each 350 square feet  
  
    Outdoor storage                 1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Parks                           None  
  
    Participant sports and          1 space for each 350 square feet  
    recreation, indoor or outdoor,  
    unless otherwise specified  
  
    Passenger terminals (waiting    1 space for each 100 square feet  
    area)  
  
    Performing arts theater         1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1  
                                    space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    spectator assembly area not containing  
                                    fixed seats  
  
    Personal transportation         1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
    services  
  
    Playgrounds                     None  
  
    Power plants                    1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Private club1                   1 space for each 80 square feet of floor  
                                    area of all auditoria and public  
                                    assembly rooms not containing fixed  
                                    seats; or  
                                    1 space for every 8 fixed seats for  
                                    floor area containing fixed seats; or  
                                    if no auditorium or assembly room, 1  
                                    space for each 350 square feet,  
                                    excluding ball courts  
  
    Railroad rights-of-way          None  
  
    Railroad switchyard with or     1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
    without mechanized hump  
  
    Recreational marinas            1 space for each 75 lineal feet of  
                                    moorage  
  
    Recycling center                1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Recycling collection station    None  
  
    Religious facility1             1 space for each 80 square feet of all  
                                    auditoria and public assembly rooms  
  
    Research and development        1 space for each 1,000 square feet  
    laboratory  
  
    Research and development  
    laboratory located within the   1 space for each 1,500 square feet  
    South Lake Union Hub Urban  
    Village  
  
    Restaurant                      1 space for each 200 square feet  
  
    Sale and rental of large boats  1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Sale and rental of motorized    1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
    vehicles  
  
    Sale of boat parts and          1 space for each 350 square feet  
    accessories  
  
    Sale of heating fuel            1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Sales, service and rental of    1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
    commercial equipment  
  
    Sales, service and rental of    1 space for each 350 square feet  
    office equipment  
  
    Salvage yard                    1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    School, private elementary and  1 space for each 80 square feet of all  
    secondary1,2                    auditoria and public assembly rooms, or  
                                    if no auditorium or assembly room, 1  
                                    space for each staff member  
  
    School, public elementary and   1 space for each 80 square feet of all  
    secondary 1,2,7                 auditoria or public assembly rooms, or 1  
                                    space for every 8 fixed seats in  
                                    auditoria or public assembly rooms,  
                                    containing fixed seats, for new public  
                                    schools on a new or existing public  
                                    school site  
  
    Sewage treatment plant          1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Single-family dwelling units    1 space for each dwelling unit  
  
    Skating rink (rink area)        1 space for each 100 square feet  
  
    Solid waste transfer station    1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Specialty food stores           1 space for each 350 square feet  
  
    Spectator sports facility11     1 space for each 10 fixed seats or 1  
                                    space for each 100 square feet of  
                                    spectator assembly area not containing  
                                    fixed seats  
  
    Sport range                     1 space for each 2 stations  
  
    Swimming pool (water area)      1 space for each 150 square feet  
  
    Transit vehicle base            1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Universities8                   A number of spaces equal to 15 percent  
                                    of the maximum number of students  
                                    present at peak hour; plus 30 percent of  
                                    the number of employees present at peak  
                                    hour; plus 1 space for each 100 square  
                                    feet of spectator assembly area in  
                                    outdoor spectator sports facilities  
  
    Utility service uses            1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Vehicle and vessel repair       1 space for each 2,000 square feet  
  
    Vocational or fine arts school  1 space for each 2 faculty plus  
                                    full-time employees; plus 1 space for  
                                    each 5 students (based on the maximum  
                                    number of students in attendance at any  
                                    one time)  
  
    Warehouse                       1 space for each 1,500 square feet  
  
    Wholesale showroom              1 space for each 1,500 square feet  
  
    Work-release centers            1 space for each 2 full-time staff  
                                    members; plus 1 space for each 5  
                                    residents; plus 1 space for each vehicle  
                                    operated in connection with the  
                                    work-release center  
    1 When permitted in single-family zones as a conditional use, the  
    Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section  
    23.44.022; when permitted in multifamily zones as a conditional use,  
    the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section  
    23.45.122. The Director, in consultation with the Director of the  
    Seattle Department of Transportation, may allow adult care and  
    childcare centers locating in existing structures to provide loading  
    and unloading spaces on-street when no other alternative exists.  
  
    2 Indoor gymnasiums shall not be considered ball courts, nor shall they  
    be considered auditoria or public assembly rooms unless they contain  
    bleachers (fixed seats). If the gymnasium contains bleachers, the  
    parking requirement for the entire gymnasium shall be one (1) parking  
    space for every eight (8) fixed seats.  Each twenty (20) inches of  
    width of bleachers shall be counted as one (1) fixed seat for the  
    purposes of determining parking requirements. If the gymnasium does not  
    contain bleachers and is in a school, there is no parking requirement  
    for the gymnasium. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is  
    in a community center, the parking requirement shall be one (1) space  
    for each three hundred fifty (350) square feet.  If the gymnasium does  
    not contain bleachers and is in a community center owned and operated  
    by the Department of Parks and Recreation (DOPAR), the parking  
    requirement shall be one (1) space for each five hundred fifty-five  
    (555) square feet.  
  
    3 When family support centers are located within community centers  
    owned and operated by DOPAR, the Director may lower the combined  
    parking requirement by up to a maximum of fifteen (15) percent,  
    pursuant to Section 23.54.020 I.  
  
    4 Parking spaces required for multifamily uses may be provided as  
    tandem spaces according to subsection B of Section 23.54.020.  
  
    5Bedroom-Any habitable room as defined by the Building Code that, in  
    the determination of the Director, is capable of being used as a  
    bedroom.  
  
    6When specified in single-family zones, Section 23.44.015, the Director  
    may waive some or all of the parking requirements.  
  
    7For public schools, when an auditorium or other place of assembly is  
    demolished and a new one built in its place, parking requirements shall  
    be determined based on the new construction. When an existing public  
    school on an existing public school site is remodeled, additional  
    parking is required if any auditorium or other place of assembly is  
    expanded or additional fixed seats are added. Additional parking is  
    required as shown on Chart A for the increase in floor area or increase  
    in number of seats only. If the parking requirement for the increased  
    area or seating is ten (10) percent or less than that for the existing  
    auditorium or other place of assembly, then no additional parking shall  
    be required.  
  
    8 Development standards departure may be granted or required pursuant  
    to the procedures and criteria set forth in Chapter 23.79 to reduce the  
    required or permitted number of parking spaces.  
  
    9 A child care facility, when co-located with an assisted living  
    facility, may count the passenger load/unload space required for the  
    assisted living facility toward its required passenger load/unload  
    spaces.  
  
    11 Required parking for spectator sports facilities or exhibition halls  
    must be available when the facility or exhibition hall is in use. A  
    facility shall be considered to be "in use" during the period beginning  
    three (3) hours before an event is scheduled to begin and ending one  
    (1) hour after a scheduled event is expected to end. For sports events  
    of variable or uncertain duration, the expected event length shall be  
    the average length of the events of the same type for which the most  
    recent data are available, provided it is within the past five (5)  
    years. During an inaugural season, or for nonrecurring events, the best  
    available good faith estimate of event duration will be used. A  
    facility will not be deemed to be "in use" by virtue of the fact that  
    administrative or maintenance personnel are present. The Director may  
    reduce the required parking for any event when projected attendance for  
    a spectator sports facility is certified to be fifty (50) percent or  
    less of the facility's seating capacity, to an amount not less than  
    that required for the certified projected attendance, at the rate of  
    one (1) space for each ten (10) fixed seats of certified projected  
    attendance. An application for reduction and the certification shall be  
    submitted to the Director at least fifteen (15) days prior to the  
    event. When the event is one of a series of similar events, such  
    certification may be submitted for the entire series fifteen (15) days  
    prior to the first event in the series. If the Director finds that a  
    certification of projected attendance of fifty (50) percent or less of  
    the seating capacity is based on satisfactory evidence such as past  
    attendance at similar events or advance ticket sales, the Director  
    shall, within fifteen (15) days of such submittal, notify the facility  
    operator that a reduced parking requirement has been approved, with any  
    conditions deemed appropriate by the Director to ensure adequacy of  
    parking if expected attendance should change. The parking requirement  
    reduction may be applied for only if the goals of the facility's  
    Transportation Management Plan are otherwise being met. The Director  
    may revoke or modify a parking requirement reduction approval during a  
    series, if projected attendance is exceeded.  
  
    12 For purposes of this section, Center City neighborhoods are the  
    following urban villages: Uptown Queen Anne, South Lake Union, Capitol  
    Hill, Pike/Pine, First Hill and 12th Avenue, as shown in the City of  
    Seattle Comprehensive Plan.  
  
    13 These general requirements for multifamily uses are superseded to  
    the extent that a use, structure or development qualifies for either a  
    greater or a lesser parking requirement under any provision below.  To  
    the extent that more than one of the provisions below applies to a  
    multifamily use, the least of the applicable parking requirements  
    applies.  The different parking requirements for certain multifamily  
    uses listed below shall not be construed to create separate uses for  
    purposes of any requirements related to establishing or changing a use  
    under this title.  
  
    14 Notice of Income Restrictions. Prior to issuance of any permit to  
    establish, construct or modify any use or structure, or to reduce any  
    parking accessory to a multifamily use or structure, if the applicant  
    relies upon these reduced parking requirements, the applicant shall  
    record in the King County Office of Records and Elections a  
    declaration signed and acknowledged by the owner(s), in a form  
    prescribed by the Director, which shall identify the subject property  
    by legal description, and shall acknowledge and provide notice to any  
    prospective purchasers that specific income limits are a condition for  
    maintaining the reduced parking requirement.  
  
      Section 8.  Subsection B of Section 23.54.035 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119238, is  
    amended as follows:  
  
    23.54.035  Loading berth requirements and space standards.  
  
    ***  
  
    B.  Exception to Loading Requirements.  
  
    1.  For uses with less than sixteen thousand (16,000) square  
    feet of gross floor area which provide a loading space on a street or  
    alley, the loading berth requirements may be waived by the Director  
    following a review by the Seattle Transportation Department,  
    which finds that the street or alley berth is adequate.  
  
    2.  Within the South Lake Union Hub Urban Village and when multiple  
    buildings share a central loading facility, loading berth requirements  
    may be waived or modified if the Director finds, in consultation with  
    the Seattle Transportation Department, the following:  
  
      a.  all loading is proposed to occur on-site; or  
  
      b.  loading that is proposed to occur in a public right-of-way  
    can take place without disrupting pedestrian circulation or vehicular  
    traffic; and  
  
      c.  once located at a central loading facility, goods can be  
    distributed to other buildings on-site without disrupting pedestrian  
    circulation or vehicular traffic.  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 9.  Section 23.84.032 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    Section was last amended by Ordinance 120117, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.84.032  Definitions -- R.  
  
    ***  
  
      "Research and development laboratory" means a commercial use  
    in which research and experiments leading to the development of new  
    products are conducted. This use may be associated with an  
    institutional, clinical or commercial use.  Space designed for this  
    use typically includes features such as: floor to floor ceiling  
    heights, generally fourteen (14) feet in height or greater to  
    accommodate mechanical equipment and laboratory benches plumbed for  
    water service.    
  
    ***  
  
      Section 10.  Section 23.86.006 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    Section was last amended by Ordinance 112971, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.86.006  Structure Height.  
  
      A.  Height Measurement Technique in All Zones Except Downtown  
    Zones and Within the South Lake Union Hub Urban Village.  
  
       1.  The height shall be measured at the exterior walls of the  
    structure. Measurement shall be taken at each exterior wall from the  
    existing or finished grade, whichever is lower, up to a plane  
    essentially parallel to the existing or finished grade. For  
    determining structure height, the exterior wall shall include a plane  
    between supporting members and between the roof and the ground. The  
    vertical distance between the existing grade, or finished grade, if  
    lower, and the parallel plane above it shall not exceed the maximum  
    height of the zone.  
  
      2.  When finished grade is lower than existing grade, in order for  
    an upper portion of an exterior wall to avoid being considered on the  
    same vertical plane as a lower portion, it must be set back from the  
    lower portion a distance equal to two (2) times the difference between  
    existing and finished grade on the lower portion of the wall (Exhibit  
    23.86.006 A1).  
  
      3.  Depressions such as window wells, stairwells for exits required  
    by other codes, "barrier free" ramps on grade, and vehicle access  
    driveways into garages shall be disregarded in determining structure  
    height when in combination they comprise less than fifty percent (50%)  
    of the facade on which they are located. In such cases, the grade for  
    height measurement purposes shall be a line between the grade on  
    either side of the depression.  
  
       4.  No part of the structure, other than those specifically  
    exempted or excepted under the provisions of the zone, shall extend  
    beyond the plane of the maximum height limit.       5.  Underground  
    portions of structures are not included in height calculations. The  
    height of structures shall be calculated from the point at which the  
    sides meet the surface of the ground.  
  
      B.  Within the South Lake Union Hub Urban Village, structure  
    height shall be measured for all portions of the structure.  All  
    measurements shall be taken vertically from existing or finished  
    grade, whichever is lower, to the highest point of the structure  
    located directly above each point of measurement.  
  
      Existing or finished grade shall be established by drawing  
    straight lines between the corresponding elevations at the perimeter  
    of the structure.  The straight lines will be existing or finished  
    grade for the purpose of height measurement.  When a contour line  
    crosses a facade more than once, that contour line will be disregarded  
    when establishing existing or finished grade.  
  
      B.C.  Height Averaging for Single-family Zones. In a  
    single family zone, the average elevation of the nearest single family  
    structures on either side of a lot may be, at the applicant's option,  
    used to establish the height limit of the principal structure on that  
    lot, according to the following provisions:  
  
        1.  Each structure used for averaging shall be on the same block  
    front as the lot for which a height limit is being established. The  
    structures used shall be the nearest single family structure on each  
    side of the lot, and shall be within one hundred feet (100') of the  
    side lot lines of the lot.  
  
        2.  The height limit for the lot shall be established by averaging  
    the elevations of the structures on either side in the following  
    manner:  
  
          a.  If the nearest structure on either side has a roof with at  
    least a three-in-twelve (3:12) pitch, the elevation to be used for  
    averaging shall be the highest point of that structure's roof minus  
    five feet (5').  
  
          b.  If the nearest structure on either side has a flat roof, or  
    a roof with a pitch of less than three-in-twelve (3:12), the elevation  
    of the highest point of the structure's roof shall be used for  
    averaging.  
  
          c.  Rooftop features which are otherwise exempt from height  
    limitations, Height Exceptions, Section  23.44.012 C, shall not be  
    included in elevation calculations.  
  
          d.  The two (2) elevations obtained from steps 2a and/or 2b  
    shall be averaged to derive the height limit for the lot. This height  
    limit shall be the difference in elevation between the midpoint of a  
    line parallel to the front lot line at the required front setback and  
    the average elevation derived from 2a and/or 2b.  
  
          e.  The height measurement technique used for the lot shall then  
    be the City's standard measurement technique, Section 23.86.006 A.  
  
        3.  When there is no single-family structure within one hundred  
    feet (100') on a side of the lot, or when the nearest single family  
    structure within one hundred feet (100') on a side of the lot is not  
    on the same block front, the elevation used for averaging on that side  
    shall be thirty feet (30') plus the elevation of the midpoint of the  
    front lot line of the abutting vacant lot.  
  
        4.  When the lot is a corner lot, the height limit may be the  
    highest elevation of the nearest structure on the same block front,  
    provided that the structure is within one hundred feet (100') of the  
    side lot line of the lot and that both front yards face the same  
    street.  
  
        5.  In no case shall the height limit established according to  
    these height averaging provisions be greater than forty feet (40').  
  
        6.  Lots using height averaging to establish a height limit shall  
    be eligible for the pitched roof provisions of Section 23.44.012 B.  
  
      C.D.  Additional Height on Sloped Lots.  
  
        1.  In certain zones, additional height shall be permitted on  
    sloped lots at the rate of one foot (1') for each six percent (6%) of  
    slope. For the purpose of this provision, the slope shall be measured  
    from the exterior wall with the greatest average elevation at existing  
    grade, to the exterior wall with the lowest average elevation at  
    existing grade. The slope shall be the difference between the existing  
    grade average elevations of the two (2) walls, expressed as a  
    percentage of the horizontal distance between the two (2) walls.  
  
        2.  This additional height shall be permitted on any wall of the  
    structure, provided that on the uphill side(s) of the structure, the  
    height of the wall(s) shall be no greater than the height limit of the  
    zone (Exhibit 23.86.006 A2).  
  
        3.  Structures on sloped lots shall also be eligible for the  
    pitched roof provisions applicable in the zone.  
  
      D.E.  Height Measurement Techniques in Downtown Zones.  
  
        1.  Determine the major street property line, which shall be the  
    lot's longest street property line. When the lot has two (2) or more  
    street lot lines of equal length, the applicant shall choose the major  
    street property line.  
  
        2.  Determine the slope of the lot along the entire length of the  
    major street property line.  
  
        3.  The maximum height shall be measured as follows:  
  
          a.  When the slope of the major street property line is less  
    than or equal to seven and one-half percent (7-1/2%), the elevation of  
    maximum height shall be determined by adding the maximum permitted  
    height to the existing grade elevation at the midpoint of the major  
    street property line. On a through lot, the elevation of maximum  
    height shall apply only to the half of the lot nearest the major  
    street property line. On the other half of a through lot, the  
    elevation of maximum height shall be determined by the above method  
    using the street lot line opposite and parallel to the major street  
    property line as depicted in Exhibit 23.86.006 B.  
  
          b.  When the slope of the major street property line exceeds  
    seven and one-half percent (7-1/2%), the major street property line  
    shall be divided into four (4) or fewer equal segments no longer than  
    one hundred twenty feet (120') in length. The elevation of maximum  
    height shall be determined by adding the maximum permitted height to  
    the existing grade elevation at the midpoint of each segment. On a  
    through lot, the elevation of maximum height shall apply only to the  
    half of the lot nearest the major street property line. On the other  
    half of a through lot, the elevation of maximum height shall be  
    determined by the above method using the street lot line opposite and  
    parallel to the major street property line, as depicted in Exhibit  
    23.86.006 C.  
  
          c.  For lots with more than one (1) street frontage, where there  
    is no street property line which is essentially parallel to the major  
    street property line, when a measurement has been made for the portion  
    of the block containing the major street property line, the next  
    measurement shall be taken from the longest remaining street lot line.  
  
        4.  No parts of the structure, other than those specifically  
    exempted or excepted under the provisions of the zone, shall extend  
    beyond the elevation of maximum height.  
  
        5.  Underground portions of structures are not included in height  
    calculations. The height of structures shall be calculated from the  
    point at which the sides meet the surface of the ground.  
  
      E.F.  Determining the Height of Existing Public School  
    Structures. When the height of the existing public school structure  
    must be measured for purposes of determining the permitted height or  
    lot coverage of a public school structure, either one of the following  
    options may be used:  
  
        1.  If all parts of the new roof are pitched at a rate of not less  
    than three to twelve (3:12), the ridge of the new roof may extend to  
    the highest point of the existing roof. A shed roof does not qualify  
    for this option.  
  
        2.  If all parts of the new roof are not pitched at a rate of not  
    less than three to twelve (3:12), then the elevation of the new  
    construction may extend to the average height of the existing  
    structure. The average height shall be determined by measuring the  
    area of each portion of the building at each height and averaging  
    those areas, as depicted in Exhibit 23.86.006 D.  
  
    Section 11.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be  
    separate and severable.  The invalidity of any particular provision  
    shall not affect the validity of any other provision.  
  
    Section 12.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    September 22, 2003  
    version #3  
    t  
