* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114698**   
**Ordinance Number: 121296**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to affordable housing; authorizing the Director of the Office of Housing to enter into and administer an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with King County for a Regional Affordable Housing Program using revenues from the surcharge on document recording fees authorized by State law; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 29, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 10, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 9, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 15, 2003   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services and Community Development   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER   
  
**Index Terms:** GRANTS, KING-COUNTY, HOMELESS, EMERGENCY-HOUSING, SHELTERS, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, OFFICE-OF-HOUSING  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114698.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114698  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to affordable housing; authorizing the Director  
    of the Office of Housing to enter into and administer an Interlocal  
    Cooperation Agreement with King County for a Regional Affordable  
    Housing Program using revenues from the surcharge on document  
    recording fees authorized by State law; and ratifying and confirming  
    prior acts.  
  
    WHEREAS, RCW 39.34, the Interlocal Cooperation Act, allows local  
    governmental units to make the most efficient use of their powers by  
    enabling them to cooperate and enter into agreements with each other;  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, during the 57th Legislative session the Washington State  
    Legislature passed Substitute House Bill 2060 (SHB 2060), which  
    became effective on June 13, 2002; and  
  
    WHEREAS, SHB 2060 authorizes a $10.00 surcharge on recording fees for  
    recording of real property documents with the Assessor's office for  
    the purpose of providing funds to housing programs for extremely low-  
    income and very low-income persons; and  
  
    WHEREAS, SHB 2060 provides that a portion of the revenues from the  
    surcharge shall be allocated to very low-income housing projects or  
    units within such housing projects by the county and the cities  
    within a county according to an interlocal agreement between the  
    county and the cities within the county, consistent with countywide  
    and local housing needs and policies; and  
  
    WHEREAS, King County Council passed an ordinance on July 21, 2003  
    authorizing the County Executive to execute an interlocal cooperation  
    agreement with cities and towns within King County, in accordance  
    with 2002 Washington Laws Chapter 294 (SHB 2060, codified as RCW  
    36.22.178); and  
  
    WHEREAS, the directors of the Seattle Office of Housing and Human  
    Services Department, and the director of the King County Department  
    of Community and Human Services, have signed a Memorandum of  
    Understanding with regard to the administration of the Regional  
    Affordable Housing Program in Seattle, a copy of which is attached  
    hereto as Exhibit B; and  
  
    WHEREAS, it is desirable and in the City's best interest to enter  
    into an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement for use of revenues  
    authorized by SHB 2060; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Director of the Office of Housing or her designee is  
    authorized to execute, deliver, and administer, for and on behalf of  
    The City of Seattle, an agreement with King County ("County"),  
    substantially in the form attached to this ordinance as Exhibit A,  
    that specifies how a portion of the funds generated as a result of  
    State of Washington SHB 2060 are to be administered. Nothing in this  
    ordinance or the Agreement shall be construed to authorize or require  
    any action by any City department or officer contrary to law.  
  
    Section 2.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
      Passed by a majority vote of all the members of the City Council  
    the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed by me in open session in  
    authentication of its passage this  _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachments:  Exhibit A: Interlocal Cooperation Agreement  
  
          Exhibit 1: Regional Affordable Housing Program Guidelines  
  
        Exhibit B: Memorandum of Understanding  
  
    Eric Pravitz/ewp  
  
    2060 ord  
  
    8/11/03  
  
    Version #3  
  
    Exhibit A  
  
    REGIONAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM  
  
    INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT  
  
    An Agreement for the use of SHB 2060 Local Low-Income  
  
     Housing Funds in King County  
  
      THIS AGREEMENT is entered into between King County, a municipal  
    corporation and political subdivision of the State of Washington,  
    hereinafter referred to as the "County", and the City of Seattle  
    hereinafter referred to as the "City", said parties to the Agreement  
    each being a unit of general local government of the State of  
    Washington.  
  
    RECITALS  
  
      WHEREAS, the King County Countywide Planning Policies, hereinafter  
    referred to as the "CPPs", developed pursuant to the Washington State  
    Growth Management Act, have established standards for cities to plan  
    for their share of regional growth and affordable housing; and  
  
      WHEREAS, to implement the CPPs, the King County Growth Management  
    Planning Council appointed a public-private Housing Finance Task  
    Force in 1994, hereinafter referred to as the "HFTF", to recommend  
    potential fund sources for affordable housing for existing low-income  
    residents and for meeting the affordable housing targets for future  
    growth; and  
  
      WHEREAS the HFTF recommended a document recording fee as a source  
    of regional dollars for low-income housing development and support,  
    and recommended that representatives of the County, Cities and the  
    housing community work together to make decisions about the use and  
    administration of such a fund; and  
  
      WHEREAS in March 2002, Substitute House Bill 2060, hereinafter  
    referred to as SHB 2060, was passed by the Washington State  
    Legislature and was signed into law by the Governor as Chapter 294,  
    2002 Washington Laws in April 2002, and was effective on June 13,  
    2002.  SHB 2060 provides, in large part, that:  
  
    A surcharge of ten dollars per instrument shall be charged by the  
    county auditor for each real property document recorded, which will  
    be in addition to any other charge authorized by law;  
  
    After retention of up to five percent (5%) for collection  
    administration, forty percent (40%) of the revenue will be  
    transmitted monthly to the state treasurer, and sixty percent (60%)  
    of the revenue will be retained by the county and deposited into a  
    fund that must be used by the county and its cities and towns for  
    housing projects or units within housing projects that are affordable  
    to very low-income households at or below fifty percent (50%) of the  
    area median income.  The local portion of the funds must be allocated  
    pursuant to an interlocal agreement between the county and the cities  
    within the county that is consistent with countywide and local  
    housing needs and policies, and pursuant to the eligible activities  
    listed in the SHB 2060 legislation; and  
  
    WHEREAS, existing Interlocal Cooperation Agreements or Joint  
    Agreements between King County and cities in the King County  
    Community Development Block Grant Consortium, hereinafter referred to  
    as the "CDBG Agreements", and/or existing Interlocal Cooperation  
    Agreements between King County and cities in the King County HOME  
    Investment Partnerships Program Consortium, hereinafter referred to  
    as the "HOME Agreements", are not modified by this Regional  
    Affordable Housing Program Agreement; and    
  
  
  
      WHEREAS, the City and King County agree that affordable housing is  
    a regional issue, that cooperation between the Cities and the County  
    is beneficial to the region, and that a regional approach to  
    utilizing the SHB 2060 funds will allow those funds to be used in the  
    most productive manner; and  
  
    WHEREAS, it is mutually beneficial and desirable to enter into a  
    cooperative agreement in order to administer the SHB 2060 revenue as  
    a regional fund, as authorized by the Intergovernmental Cooperation  
    Act, RCW 39.34, and, as required by SHB 2060;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION OF THE FOREGOING CIRCUMSTANCES AND  
    IN CONSIDERATION OF THE MUTUAL PROMISES CONTAINED HEREIN, THE PARTIES  
    AGREE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    I.  Definitions and Interpretation.  
  
    Capitalized terms used herein shall have the following meanings  
    unless the context in which they are used clearly requires otherwise.  
  
    "Joint Recommendations Committee" or "JRC" means the inter-  
    jurisdictional body developed pursuant to the CDBG Agreements and the  
    HOME Agreements.  The JRC is currently composed of five (5) Cities'  
    representatives and four (4) King County representatives.  The King  
    County Executive appoints the four County representative seats.  The  
    King County Consortium's HOME-only cities rotate one of the City  
    representative seats, and the Suburban Cities Association selects the  
    four remaining City representative seats.  A small city  
    representative is a priority for one of the four remaining City  
    seats.  JRC members are appointed for a term two years, with the  
    exception of the alternating HOME-only cities' seat, which revolves  
    every year.  
  
    "HOME Working Group" means the staff work group consisting of staff  
    representatives from participating Cities and from the County that  
    work together to recommend annual capital fund allocations for  
    housing projects and related policies to the inter-jurisdictional  
    Joint Recommendations Committee.  
  
    "2060 Planning Group" means the planning group consisting of staff  
    representatives from the Cities, from the County, and from the  
    housing community that worked together between August 2002 and  
    October 2002 to develop guidelines for the local portion of the SHB  
    2060 funds, pursuant to the recommendations of the HFTF.  
  
    II.  General Agreement  
  
  
  
    The purpose of this agreement is to establish the "Regional  
    Affordable Housing Program", hereinafter "RAHP", to be administered  
    by King County in cooperation with Cities and Towns within the County  
    that choose to participate in the program.  The local portion of SHB  
    2060 revenue shall be administered as a regional fund by the King  
    County Housing and Community Development Program in a manner that is  
    consistent with countywide and local housing needs and policies.  
  
    The City and the County agree to cooperate in undertaking RAHP  
    activities.  
  
    III.  General Administration, Distribution and Use of the RAHP.  
  
    A. Expansion and role of the JRC.  The JRC shall be the body  
    that reviews and adopts annual RAHP fund allocations and related  
    allocation polices, consistent with the King County Council-adopted  
    RAHP Guidelines, the Consolidated Housing and Community Development  
    Plans of the King County Consortium and the City of Seattle, and  
    other local housing plans, as applicable.  The membership of the JRC,  
    as authorized by the CDBG and HOME Agreements, and as defined herein,  
    shall be expanded to include an appointment from the City of Seattle.  
    The Seattle JRC representative will attend meetings that concern the  
    SHB 2060 fund and will be entitled to vote solely on SHB 2060 issues  
    and not on other King County Consortium matters coming before the  
    JRC.  The Seattle representative shall be an elected official,  
    department director or comparable level staff.  
  
    B. Incorporation by reference of certain amendments to the King  
    County Consortium's CDBG and HOME Agreements.  CDBG and HOME  
    Agreement Cities and the County agree to convene a special working  
    group in 2003 to recommend changes and/or expansion of the  
    representation of cities on the JRC in the CDBG and HOME Agreements.  
    The special working group shall make recommendations on the  
    constitution of the JRC in time for CDBG and HOME Agreement cities to  
    reach agreement on amendments by December 31, 2003.  Amendments made  
    to the CDBG and HOME Agreements concerning the representation of  
    cities on the JRC, shall be incorporated by reference into this RAHP  
    Agreement and the RAHP Guidelines.  Amendments to the CDBG and HOME  
    Agreement cities' representation on the JRC shall not alter the City  
    of Seattle's seat on the JRC for RAHP purposes.  
  
    C. Expansion of the HOME Working Group.  The HOME Working Group,  
    as defined herein, shall be expanded to include an appointment from  
    the City of Seattle's Office of Housing, and shall be re-named the  
    "RAHP/HOME Working Group".  Seattle staff will be entitled to  
    participate solely in making SHB 2060 program recommendations and not  
    in other King County Consortium matters coming before the RAHP/HOME  
    Working Group.  Each city that participates in the RAHP is entitled  
    to have a staff person on the RAHP/HOME Working Group.  
  
    D. Role of the RAHP/HOME Working Group.  The RAHP/HOME Working  
    Group shall make annual RAHP fund allocation and related allocation  
    policy recommendations to the JRC.  The RAHP/HOME Working Group  
    recommendations shall be consistent with the King County Council-  
    adopted RAHP Guidelines, the Consolidated Housing and Community  
    Development Plans of the King County Consortium and the City of  
    Seattle, and other local housing plans, as applicable.  
  
    Pursuant to the RAHP Guidelines, the RAHP/HOME Working Group shall  
    examine the percentages of RAHP funds distributed to the subregions  
    of the County following the 2004 and 2005 funding rounds, and shall  
    recommend actions to achieve geographic equity by the time the RAHP  
    Agreement expires in 2006.  City and County staff will work together  
    to take actions to achieve geographic equity in the distribution of  
    RAHP funds.  
  
    E. Administration of RAHP Programs.  The King County Housing  
    and Community Development ("HCD") Program staff shall distribute RAHP  
    funds pursuant to the allocations adopted annually by the JRC, and  
    shall administer the program pursuant to the RAHP Agreement and the  
    King County Council-adopted RAHP Guidelines, attached hereto as  
    Exhibit #1.  
  
    King County HCD staff shall provide the RAHP/HOME Working Group, the  
    JRC, and participating jurisdictions with an annual report that  
    provides information about the capital housing projects that were  
    awarded RAHP funds in that year; in addition to the status of capital  
    housing projects that were awarded RAHP funds in a prior year(s).  
  
    King County HCD staff shall invite the staff of participating cities  
    to be involved in a focus group to further develop the RAHP  
    Operations and Maintenance ("O&M") Fund, and to be on the review  
    panel that will recommend O&M funding awards to the JRC.  
  
    F. Administrative Costs. King County agrees to pay the costs of  
    administering the Regional Affordable Housing Program.  No portion of  
    the sixty percent (60%) of the SHB 2060 revenue retained by King  
    County in a fund for the RAHP shall be utilized for RAHP  
    administration.  
  
    G. Interest on the RAHP Fund.  Interest accrued on the sixty  
    percent (60%) of the SHB 2060 revenue retained by King County in a  
    fund for the RAHP shall remain with the RAHP fund and will be  
    distributed to projects according to the subregional allocation  
    target formula found in the RAHP Guidelines, attached as Exhibit 1.  
  
    H. Sub-Regional Geographic Equity.  The parties intend that the  
    RAHP funds shall be awarded to projects throughout King County in a  
    fair and equitable manner over the duration of this agreement.  
    Equity is to be achieved through sub-regional allocation targets, as  
    follows: A fixed percentage of RAHP local funds will be allocated to  
    sub-regions of the County by the end of this 4-year Agreement, as  
    specified by a formula contained in the RAHP Guidelines, attached  
    hereto as Exhibit #1.  
  
    I. General Use of Funds.  The local portion of the SHB 2060  
    revenue shall be utilized to meet regional housing priorities for  
    households at or below 50% of area median income, as established in  
    the RAHP Guidelines, attached hereto as Exhibit #1.  
  
    J. Compliance with Fair Housing Laws.  Parties to this  
    agreement must take actions necessary to ensure compliance with the  
    Federal Fair Housing Act, as amended, the Americans with Disabilities  
    Act of 1990, and other applicable state and local fair housing laws.  
  
    IV. Agreement Duration  
  
    This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect through  
    December 31, 2006, when this agreement will expire.  The 2060  
    Planning Group will re-convene in the spring of 2006 to evaluate the  
    RAHP and to recommend whether the RAHP Guidelines and the RAHP  
    Interlocal Agreement should be re-negotiated or renewed in their  
    current formats.  
  
    V. General Matters and Recording  
  
  
  
    A. No separate legal or administrative entity is created by this  
    Agreement.  Neither the JRC, the RAHP/HOME Working Group, nor the  
    2060 Planning Group are anticipated to acquire or to hold any real or  
    personal property pursuant to this Agreement.  Any personal property  
    utilized in the normal course of the work of such bodies shall remain  
    the property of the person or city initially offering such personal  
    property for the use of any such body.  
  
    B. Pursuant to RCW 39.34.040, this Agreement shall be filed with the  
    King County Auditor.  
  
    CITY OF SEATTLE          KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON  
  
    ___________________________________  
    ____________________________________  
  
    Signature of Director of Housing      Ron Sims, County Executive  
  
    ___________________________________  
  
    Katie Hong, Director, Seattle Office of Housing  
  
    Date:_______________________________  
    Date:_______________________________  
  
    Approved as to Form:  
  
    ___________________________________  
    ___________________________________  
  
    Signature of City Attorney        Signature of County Prosecuting  
    Attorney  
  
    Date: ______________________________    Date:  
    ______________________________  
  
    Regional Affordable Housing Program Guidelines  
  
    Guidelines for the Administration and Allocation of  
  
    SHB 2060 Local Low-Income Housing Funds  
  
    In King County  
  
    A.  Introduction  
  
    The provisions of Substitute House Bill 2060 became effective in  
    Washington State on June 13, 2002.  
  
    SHB 2060 created a document recording fee on certain documents to be  
    utilized for low-income housing.  Administration of the fund is  
    shared between local governments and the State.  The local portion of  
    SHB 2060 funds is to be administered pursuant to a cooperative  
    agreement between the County and the Cities and Towns within the  
    County.  
  
    The work of the Housing Finance Task Force ("HFTF"), appointed by the  
    King County Growth Management Planning Council in 1994, led to the  
    passage of SHB 2060.  In recognition of the recommendations made by  
    the HFTF, a SHB 2060 Planning Group was invited to come together to  
    produce guidelines for the King County SHB 2060 funds.  The King  
    County SHB 2060 Planning Group1 is made up of City representatives,  
    County representatives and representatives from a variety of private  
    housing organizations in King County.  
  
    The King County SHB 2060 Planning Group strongly favored a regional  
    low-income housing fund source administered by one entity.  The  
    planning group worked hard to achieve a regional fund, and the  
    Regional Affordable Housing Program Guidelines are the result of that  
    work.  
  
    B.  Duration of the Guidelines  
  
    The Regional Affordable Housing Program ("RAHP") Guidelines shall  
    take effect after adoption by the King County Council, and shall  
    remain in effect through December 31, 2006.  In the spring of 2006  
    the King County 2060 planning group shall be reconvened to evaluate  
    the RAHP, and to make recommendations as to whether the RAHP  
    guidelines should be amended or should remain in the current format.  
  
    C.  Decision-Making Structure and Regional Allocation Method  
  
    1.  Approving Body  
  
    The interjurisdictional Joint Recommendations Committee ("JRC"), as  
    defined in the RAHP Interlocal Cooperation Agreement, hereinafter  
    "RAHP Agreement", shall be the body that reviews and approves RAHP  
    funding allocations and related allocation policies.  The JRC will be  
    expanded, pursuant to the RAHP Agreement, to include representation  
    from the City of Seattle on RAHP matters.  
  
    Allocations and related policies adopted by the JRC must be  
    consistent with these RAHP Guidelines, the Consolidated Plans of the  
    King County Consortium and the City of Seattle, and other local  
    housing plans, as applicable.  
  
    2. Annual Fund Allocation Recommendations  
  
    The existing HOME Working Group, as defined in the RAHP Agreement,  
    shall be renamed the RAHP/HOME Working Group and shall be expanded to  
    include a staff representative from the City of Seattle.  City of  
    Seattle staff will participate solely in making RAHP recommendations.  
  
    The RAHP/HOME Working Group will work together to make RAHP fund  
    allocation recommendations and related allocation policy  
    recommendations to the JRC:  
  
    * King County HCD staff will review all RAHP applications and make  
    preliminary funding recommendations on them.  
  
    * Cities staff will review applications for projects in their  
    jurisdiction and make preliminary recommendations on those  
    applications.  
  
    * Cities staff will receive information on all RAHP applications to  
    review prior to the meeting of the RAHP/HOME Working Group at which  
    final funding recommendations are formulated for transmittal to the  
    JRC.  
  
    * RAHP/HOME Working Group participants will meet together to make  
    annual RAHP funding recommendations to the JRC, and at other times  
    during the year, as necessary, to discuss RAHP issues and make  
    recommendations to the JRC.  
  
    3.  Subregional Allocation Targets  
  
    The RAHP Fund will be a flexible fund that can address regional and  
    subregional housing needs.  The fund will use subregional allocation  
    targets as a means to achieve geographic equity in the distribution  
    of SHB 2060 funds by December 31, 2006, the date that these  
    guidelines and the RAHP Agreements expire.  
  
    a.  Subregional Areas:  
  
    1) City of Seattle Subregion  
  
    2) North/East Subregion - north and east urban and rural areas,  
    including 34% of unincorporated King County2  
  
    3)  South Subregion - south urban and rural areas, including 66% of  
    unincorporated King County  
  
    b.  Formula for Subregional Allocation Targets  
  
    Each subregion will have a targeted percentage of the RAHP funds,  
    including the interest on the RAHP funds, allocated to projects  
    within the subregion over the 4-year period of the RAHP Guidelines  
    and the RAHP Agreement.  Each subregion will receive allocations to  
    projects within the subregion that are equal to or greater than 95%,  
    of the subregion's allocation target by December 31, 2006.  
  
    The formula for allocating RAHP funds to the subregions is as  
    follows:  
  
    * One half of the RAHP funds shall be targeted for allocation amongst  
    the three subregions based on each subregion's relative share of  
    total existing need for affordable housing.  Existing need shall be  
    determined by the percentage of low-income households paying more  
    than 30% of their income for housing in the subregion, according to  
    the 2000 U.S. Census data3.  
  
    * One half of the RAHP funds shall be targeted for allocation amongst  
    the three subregions based on the subregion's growth targets for  
    future need, as established through the Growth Management Planning  
    Council.  Future need shall be determined by the subregion's relative  
    share of total future need for affordable housing in the County.  A  
    subregion's relative share of future need is the percentage of the  
    subregion's affordable housing target for low-income households  
    relative to the cumulative affordable housing target for low-income  
    households of all jurisdictions in the County, including  
    unincorporated King County4.  
  
    When the U.S. Census data has been broken down in the form needed to  
    determine the subregional target percentages, it will be applied to  
    the formula specified above in order to calculate the actual  
    percentage targets.  The actual target percentages will be presented  
    to the JRC for approval of an amendment to the RAHP Guidelines.  
  
    c.  RAHP/HOME Working Group to Monitor Subregional Allocation Targets  
  
    The RAHP/HOME Working Group will monitor the subregional distribution  
    of RAHP funds every allocation cycle.  Following the 2004 and 2005  
    RAHP allocation cycles the working group will determine if any  
    subregion(s) has received allocations below 95% of the subregion's  
    allocation target.  
  
    If any subregions have received allocations under 95% of their target  
    allocation after the first two funding cycles, the working group will  
    adjust the allocation targets of such subregion(s) in the third  
    and/or fourth funding cycles, as needed.  In addition, the Working  
    Group will propose strategies and actions, for review by the JRC,  
    that are designed to increase the percentage of RAHP funds spent in  
    those subregion(s).  Staff of the jurisdictions that are parties to  
    the RAHP Agreement will work to implement actions that will aid in  
    achieving geographic equity in RAHP allocations by December 31, 2006.  
  
    D.  Use of the RAHP Funds  
  
    1.   RAHP Priorities  
  
    * Top Priority:  Capital funds for the acquisition,  
    rehabilitation and/or new construction of eligible housing projects  
    or units within housing projects.  New construction is not eligible  
    if the low-income housing vacancy rate for all of King County exceeds  
    10%5.  
  
    * Second Priority:  Building operations and maintenance funds  
    for transitional housing projects or transitional units within  
    housing projects that were built with Housing Trust Fund dollars, and  
    that require a supplement to the rental income in order to cover  
    ongoing operating expenses.  
  
    * Third Priority:  Operating funds for emergency shelters and  
    licensed overnight youth shelters.  
  
    * Last priority:  Rental assistance vouchers to be administered  
    by a local housing authority in conformity with the Section 8  
    program.  
  
    2. RAHP Eligibility  
  
    Eligible Housing Types  
  
    * Capital Funds: permanent rental or ownership housing projects or  
    units within housing projects, transitional housing projects or  
    transitional units within housing projects, emergency shelters and  
    licensed overnight youth shelters or shelter space within a housing  
    project.  
  
    * Operating and Maintenance Funds: transitional housing projects,  
    emergency shelters and licensed overnight youth shelters.  
  
    Eligible Populations Served  
  
    * All projects or units funded with RAHP funds must serve  
    households at or below 50% of area median income  
  
    * Families  
  
    * Homeless families and individuals, including youth  
  
    * Special needs populations, including seniors  
  
    * Disabled households or households with a disabled member  
  
  
  
      Eligible Applicants  
  
    * Nonprofit organizations  
  
    * Housing Authorities  
  
    * Local governments  
  
    * For-profit entities are only eligible for capital funds in the top  
    priority.  This is due to the language of the SHB 2060 legislation,  
    which restricts operations and maintenance funds to projects "built  
    with Housing Trust Funds".  For-profit entities are not eligible for  
    WA State Housing Trust Funds.  
  
    Eligible use of RAHP Funds  
  
  
  
    Capital funds:  
  
    * Acquisition of land for a housing project or units in a project  
    that will serve eligible population(s).  
  
    * New construction of a housing project or units in a project that  
    will serve eligible population(s).  
  
    * Acquisition of a housing project or units in a project that will  
    serve eligible population(s).  
  
    * Rehabilitation of a housing project or units in a project that will  
    serve eligible population(s).  
  
    * Capitalization of a maintenance replacement reserve in connection  
    with a capital investment - applicants may be new housing projects  
    that will serve eligible populations, as well as existing6 housing  
    projects that serve eligible populations.  
  
    Operations and Maintenance (O&M) Funds:  
  
    * Ongoing building operations and maintenance expenses that cannot be  
    covered by the rental income of the housing project; building O&M  
    expenses must be directly related to running the building(s) and  
    cannot include services (see section E.1. below for more information  
    about the O&M fund program).  
  
    * Rental assistance vouchers to be administered by a local housing  
    authority in conformity with the Section 8 program.  
  
    E. RAHP Administration  
  
    The RAHP funds shall be administered as a regional fund by the King  
    County Housing and Community Development Program ("HCD").  
  
    1.  RAHP Capital Funds  
  
  
  
    RAHP capital funds will be administered by the King County HCD  
    Program's Housing Finance Program ("HFP"), in conjunction with other  
    fund sources administered by HFP.  
  
    The HFP will staff the RAHP/HOME Working Group and work with staff of  
    the participating cities in King County to develop RAHP funding  
    allocation recommendations and related policy recommendations for JRC  
    review and adoption.  
  
    The HFP will distribute RAHP funds through contracts pursuant to the  
    allocations adopted by the JRC, and will generate an annual RAHP  
    report that provides information about the projects that received  
    funding in the current year, as well as the status of projects  
    awarded RAHP funds in prior year(s).  
  
    By request of the 2060 Planning Group, the HFP staff will apply the  
    terms of the King County Housing Opportunity Fund ("HOF") to RAHP  
    contracts, with the exception of the following:  
  
    * to the extent that there are differences between the HOF guidelines  
    and RAHP guidelines, the RAHP guidelines will apply;  
  
    * A financial match by the local government where a housing project  
    is to be located is not required, but is encouraged.  
  
    * RAHP funds will have no maximum subsidy per unit, but will be  
    limited to 50% of the total development cost of a project.  
  
    2. RAHP Operations and Maintenance Fund  
  
  
  
    The local RAHP O&M fund will be administered through the King  
    County HCD Program's Homeless Housing Programs ("HHP") Section.  
  
    The local portion of SHB 2060 funds to be used as O&M for  
    transitional housing projects and emergency shelters will be 16% of  
    the anticipated average amount of local SHB 2060 dollars ($2.2  
    million)7.  In order to hold the RAHP O&M fund steady so that multi-  
    year commitments can be awarded to eligible projects, the O&M portion  
    of the fund will be held at $352,000 per year (16% of the total $2.2  
    million average) for the duration of the RAHP Guidelines.  As the  
    total local portion of SHB 2060 funds collected fluctuates from year  
    to year, the O&M portion will remain at $352,000 and the remainder of  
    the local portion will be available for the other priorities.  
  
  
  
    The priority for RAHP O&M funds will be existing projects that the  
    Washington State O&M fund is unlikely to support.  The priorities for  
    the State O&M fund are new housing projects that are simultaneously  
    applying for WA State Housing Trust Fund capital funds and shelters  
    receiving Emergency Shelter Assistance Program ("ESAP") funds.  
    Therefore, the local RAHP O&M fund will prioritize existing  
    transitional housing projects and shelters that do not receive ESAP  
    funds.  
  
    Following the adoption of the RAHP Guidelines and the RAHP Agreement  
    by the jurisdictions in King County that elect to participate in the  
    RAHP, the HHP will convene a focus group of city staff and  
    stakeholders to further develop the parameters of the RAHP O&M fund  
    and the RAHP O&M Request for Proposals.  The RAHP O&M funds will be  
    awarded in multi-year commitments and will have minimum and maximum  
    grant amounts, however, the minimum and maximum amounts and other O&M  
    fund details will be determined by the O&M focus group and will be  
    reviewed by the JRC.  
  
    The HHP will invite city staff and other stakeholders to participate  
    on the panel to review applications for the RAHP O&M funds.  The  
    review panel will recommend O&M fund awards to the JRC for final  
    adoption.  
  
    1 City representatives included staff from the cities of:  Burien,  
    Tukwila, Kent, Federal Way, Redmond, Kirkland, Issaquah, Shoreline,  
    Covington, Seatac, Auburn, Seattle, Bellevue and ARCH  
  
    Housing organization representatives included staff from the  
    following:  Seattle-King County Housing Development Consortium,  
    Impact Capital, South King County Multi-Service Center, Hopelink,  
    Fremont Public Association, Seattle Habitat for Humanity, South King  
    County Habitat for Humanity, Friends of Youth, The Salvation Army,  
    Community Psychiatric Clinic, Lifelong Aids Alliance, St. Andrews  
    Housing Group, Housing Resource Group, EDVP, YWCA, Mental Health  
    Housing Foundation, Rental Housing Association, Highline-West Mental  
    Health, Valley Cities Counseling, Seattle Emergency Housing Service,  
    Common Ground, Vietnam Veterans Leadership Program  
  
    2 Percent of unincorporated King County attributed to the North/East  
    and South Subregions is based on the 2000 census data for households  
    in the unincorporated portions of the King County Community Planning  
    Areas, as listed in the 2002 Annual Growth Report.  
  
    3 King County Demographers are working to break down the 2000 U.S  
    Census Data in the form that is needed to develop the subregional  
    allocation target percentages.  
  
    4 The percentage of a subregion's target relative to the cumulative  
    target is derived by averaging the target percentages of the  
    jurisdictions within that subregion.  For each jurisdiction, the  
    target percentage is calculated in the following manner: the number  
    of households that a jurisdiction must plan for, per the 2002-2022  
    Countywide Planning Policy (CPP) Growth Target, is multiplied by .24  
    or .20 (depending on the ratio of low wage jobs to low cost housing  
    for the jurisdiction in Appendix 3 of the CPPs); that number is then  
    divided by the cummulative affordable housing target for low-income  
    households of all King County jurisdictions, including unincorporated  
    King County.  
  
    5 The low-income housing vacancy rate for each county will be  
    established by the State, pursuant to the SHB 2060 legislation.  
  
    6 Existing projects are housing projects or units in projects that  
    already served eligible population(s) and already existed as of the  
    date of application for funds.  
  
    7 The percentage of local SHB 2060 funds set aside for O&M was  
    determined by the 2060 Planning Group, which worked together to  
    balance O&M needs and other priority needs in the County.  Given the  
    fact that 40% of the locally collected funds are sent to the State of  
    Washington solely for O&M use, and the fact that King County projects  
    can apply for the State O&M funds, the 2060 Planning Group felt that  
    local O&M needs and other priority needs are adequately balanced at  
    this percentage.  
  
    Exhibit 1 - Page 1  
  
    DRAFT  
  
    Exhibit B  
  
    Memorandum of Understanding  
  
    This Memorandum of Understanding is intended to supplement the  
    "Regional Affordable Housing Program Interlocal Cooperation  
    Agreement" between The City of Seattle and King County ("Interlocal  
    Agreement")  and the "Regional Affordable Housing Program ("RAHP")  
    Guidelines" attached thereto, for the use of SHB 2060 local low-  
    income housing funds in King County.  The parties to this MOU are the  
    Seattle Office of Housing ("OH"), the Seattle Human Services  
    Department ("HSD") and the King County Department of Community and  
    Human Services ("DCHS").  
  
    Whereas a substantial share of RAHP funds will be allocated within  
    the City of Seattle according to the Sub-regional Allocation Targets  
    established in the RAHP Guidelines; and  
  
    Whereas OH, HSD, and DCHS have a track record of successful  
    cooperation in housing policy efforts on state housing fund  
    allocations and on other funding collaborations, including the Sound  
    Families Initiative and the McKinney Continuum of Care Consortium;  
    and  
  
    Whereas OH, HSD, and DCHS desire to administer the RAHP funds in a  
    way that minimizes the administrative burden on all agencies and  
    which minimizes redundant application or monitoring steps for  
    affordable housing sponsors; and  
  
    Whereas the housing finance staff of OH administer an established  
    "Notice of Funding Availability" ("NOFA") application process for the  
    City of Seattle that receives a large number of applications in each  
    cycle, and conducts a thorough review of housing funding applications  
    for Seattle projects,  
  
    Therefore, OH, HSD, and DCHS hereby confirm their mutual  
    understanding that:  
  
    1. Application Form for Seattle Projects.  
  
    RAHP capital funds for eligible housing projects in Seattle will be  
    allocated only to projects applying for capital funding commitments  
    from the Seattle OH.  Applicants for RAHP funds in Seattle shall  
    designate their interest or willingness to accept RAHP funds as part  
    of their regular application for funds to the Seattle OH.  A complete  
    submittal to the Seattle OH under its annual NOFA will be accepted by  
    DCHS as a complete application for RAHP funds.  If the RAHP  
    application form requires additional information, OH will amend its  
    NOFA application or request the required supplementary information  
    from applicants.  
  
    2. Percentage of Development Costs for RAHP Seattle Projects.  
  
    For the purpose of calculating the cap on the percentage of City of  
    Seattle funds as a share of total development costs as defined in the  
    City of Seattle's Levy Administrative and Financial Plan and  
    Consolidated Plan, OH will include any award of RAHP funds as Seattle  
    funds in the calculation.  
  
    3. Applications for Non-Capital RAHP Funds.  
  
    Either Seattle OH or Seattle Human Services Department staff or staff  
    from both agencies shall participate in a RAHP O&M Funds focus group,  
    which will be convened in the Fall of 2003, to further develop the  
    RAHP O&M Fund for transitional housing and emergency shelters.  The  
    application form for the RAHP O&M Fund will be developed by DCHS  
    staff in the King County Housing and Community Development Program  
    ("HCD") based on the recommendations of the RAHP O&M Fund focus  
    group.  Seattle OH and/or Seattle Human Services Department staff  
    shall also participate, on the RAHP O&M Funds review panel, which  
    will recommend fund awards to the Joint Recommendations Committee.  
  
    4.  Initial OH Review of Seattle RAHP Applicants.  
  
    OH will pass on the applications seeking RAHP to King County HCD.  
    Seattle OH staff will identify projects that it recommends for RAHP  
    funding and will inform HCD of the anticipated funding gap for such  
    projects over and above what will be provided by OH-administered  
    resources.  OH staff will also identify projects that applied for  
    RAHP funding but have been awarded sufficient funds from OH-  
    administered resources so that in OH's judgment RAHP funding is not  
    needed.   OH will provide project underwriting analysis, as requested  
    by King County HCD, to the RAHP/HOME Working Group and OH staff will  
    participate in the RAHP/HOME Working Group.  
  
    5.  Adoption of Annual RAHP Allocations.  
  
    The RAHP/HOME Working Group will make annual RAHP funding  
    recommendations to the interjurisdictional Joint Recommendations  
    Committee ("JRC").  The JRC will be the body that adopts RAHP funding  
    allocations.  
  
    6.  RAHP Project Monitoring.  
  
    Seattle OH and King County HCD will work together to explore  
    opportunities for consolidating monitoring requirements and  
    monitoring reports for projects funded with both RAHP funds and OH-  
    administered fund sources.  OH and King County HCD will strive for  
    consolidation in order to reduce administrative burdens on project  
    sponsors and on our respective agencies.  
  
    7.  Subregional Performance Targets  
  
    Seattle OH, HSD, and King County HCD will to work together to assure  
    that the share of RAHP funds allocated in Seattle is consistent with  
    the sub-regional allocation targets established in the RAHP  
    Guidelines However, no specific funding or resource allocation  
    commitments are intended or conferred by reason of this Memorandum.  
  
    This MOU shall not result in any monetary liability or otherwise  
    legally binding obligations of any party, nor be enforceable by any  
    non-parties, and in case of any conflict with the Interlocal  
    Agreement or RAHP Guidelines, the Interlocal Agreement and RAHP  
    Guidelines will control.  
  
    Signed:  
  
    _____________________________      ______________________________  
  
    Katie Hong            Jackie McLean  
  
    Director, Seattle Office of Housing      Director, Department of  
    Community                   and Human Services  
  
    _______________________        ________________________  
  
    Date              Date  
  
    ______________________________  
  
    Patricia McInturff  
  
    Director, Seattle Human Services Department  
  
    _______________________  
  
    Date  
  
    Exhibit B - Page 1  
