* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114655**   
**Ordinance Number: 121277**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Seattle Municipal Code Sections 23.42.040 and 23.76.004 to allow intermittent uses to be permitted for a period of up to one year.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 15, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Drago)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 26, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 26, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
**Note:** Intermittent Uses Ordinance  
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 11, 2003   
**Committee:** Land Use   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, LAND-USE-PERMITS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114655.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114655  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Seattle  
    Municipal Code Sections 23.42.040 and 23.76.004 to allow intermittent  
    uses to be permitted for a period of up to one year.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Section 23.42.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    Section was last amended by Ordinance 119904, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.42.040   Intermittent and T temporary U  
     uses.  
  
    The Director may grant, deny or condition applications for the  
    following intermittent or temporary uses authorization  
    for uses not otherwise permitted or not meeting development  
    standards in the zone , which are in keeping with the spirit and  
    purpose of the Land Use Code.  
  
      A.  Intermittent Uses.  
  
        1.  A Master Use Permit for a time period of up to one (1)  
    year may be authorized for any use that occurs no more than two (2)  
    days per week and does not involve the erection of a permanent  
    structure, provided that:  
  
          a.  The use shall not be materially detrimental to the  
    public welfare; and  
  
          b.  The use shall not result in substantial injury to the  
    property in the vicinity; and  
  
          c.  The use shall be consistent with the spirit and  
    purpose of the Land Use Code.  
  
      A.B.  Temporary Four (4) Week Use.  
  
        1.  A Master Use Permit for a time period of up to  
     any use which is to last no longer than four (4) weeks  
    may be authorized for any use that and does not  
    involve the erection of a permanent structure and that meets the  
    requirements of section A 1 a-c above. may be authorized  
    under the following conditions:  
  
          a.  The use shall not be materially detrimental to the  
    public welfare; and  
  
          b.  The use shall not be injurious to the property in the  
    vicinity.  
  
        2.  The Director may impose conditions to ensure  
    compatibility with adjacent uses and structures and to mitigate  
    adverse impacts.   
  
      B. C.  Temporary Uses for Up to Six (6) Months.  
  
        1.  A Master Use Permit for any use of premises  
     for a time period of up to six (6) months may be  
    authorized for any use that which does not involve the  
    erection of any permanent structure and that meets the  
    requirements of section A 1 a-c above may be granted by the  
    Director.  
  
        2.  In granting, conditioning or denying permits for  
    temporary uses, the considerations recited in Section 23.42.040 A  
    shall pertain.  
  
      C. D.  Boatbuilding Shelters.  
  
        1.  A temporary use of premises, not involving the erection of  
    any permanent structure, for the express purpose of sheltering the  
    construction of boatbuilding projects by noncommercial home  
    hobbyists, may be authorized by the Director by a revocable Master  
    Use Permit for a period of not more than one (1) year. One (1) year  
    extensions may be granted by the Director for a period not to exceed  
    four (4) years. The permit is subject to the following development  
    standards:  
  
          a.  The boatbuilding shelter shall not detract from the general  
    appearance of the neighborhood.  
  
          b.  The structure, though temporary, shall be sturdy enough to  
    withstand inclement weather conditions.  
  
          c.  Measures which may be required to mitigate possible adverse  
    impacts of the boatbuilding shelter may include, but are not limited  
    to, restrictions on height, size, location or external treatment.  
  
      D. E.  Temporary Relocation of Police and Fire  
    Stations, Twelve (12) months or Less. A Master Use Permit, issued for  
    a period of twelve (12) months or less not involving the construction  
    of any permanent structure, may be authorized subject to the  
    conditions of subsection A of Section 23.42.040. Such permits shall  
    not be renewable.  
  
      E. F.  Light Rail Transit Facility Construction. A  
    temporary structure or use that supports the construction of a light  
    rail transit facility may be authorized by the Director pursuant to a  
    Master Use Permit if:  
  
        1.  The alignment, station locations, and maintenance base  
    location of the light rail transit system has been approved by the  
    City Council by ordinance or resolution;  
  
        2.  The temporary use or structure is authorized for only so long  
    as is necessary to support construction of the light rail transit  
    system;  
  
        3.  The applicant must submit plans for the establishment of  
    temporary construction uses and facilities to the Director for  
    approval. When reviewing the application, the Director shall consider  
    the duration and severity of impacts, and the number and special  
    needs of people and businesses exposed, such as frail, elderly, and  
    special needs residents. Following review of proposed plans and  
    measures to mitigate impacts of light rail transit facility  
    construction, and prior to the issuance of any permits granting  
    permission to establish construction facilities and uses, the  
    Director may impose reasonable conditions to reduce construction  
    impacts on surrounding businesses and residences, including but not  
    limited to the following:  
  
          a.  Noise impacts will be governed by the Noise Control  
    Ordinance  
  
    (SMC Chapter 25.08) and off-site impacts associated with grading and  
    drainage will be governed by the Stormwater, Grading and Drainage  
    Ordinance (SMC Chapters 22.800 through 22.808).  
  
          b.  Light. To the extent feasible, light should be shielded and  
    directed away from adjoining properties.  
  
          c.  Best Management Practices. Construction activities on the  
    site must comply with Director's Rule #6-93, Best Management  
    Practices for Construction Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plans.  
  
          d.  Parking and Traffic. Measures addressing parking and  
    traffic impacts associated with truck haul routes, truck loading and  
    off-loading facilities, parking supply displaced by construction  
    activity, and resulting from temporary construction-worker parking,  
    including measures to reduce demand for parking by construction  
    employees, must be included.  
  
          e.  Local Businesses. The applicant must address measures to  
    limit disruption of local business, including pedestrian and/or auto  
    access to business, loss of customer activity, or other impacts due  
    to protracted construction activity.  
  
          f.  Security. The applicant must address site security and  
    undertake measures to ensure the site is secure at all times and to  
    limit trespassing or the attraction of illegal activity to the  
    surrounding neighborhood.  
  
          g.  Site/Design. The construction site should be designed in a  
    manner that minimizes pedestrian/vehicle conflicts and does not  
    unnecessarily impede pedestrian mobility around the site and through  
    adjoining neighborhoods. Measures should also be undertaken to ensure  
    appropriate screening of materials storage and other construction  
    activities from surrounding streets and properties.  
  
          h.  Public Information. Actions should be taken that will  
    inform surrounding residents and businesses of construction  
    activities taking place and their anticipated duration, including a  
    twenty-four (24) hour phone number to seek additional information or  
    to report problems.  
  
          i.  Temporary structures must be constructed to withstand  
    inclement weather conditions.  
  
          j.  Vibration. The applicant must consider measures to mitigate  
    vibration impacts on surrounding residents and businesses.  
  
        4.  Site Restoration.  
  
          a.  The applicant must also agree, in writing, to submit a  
    restoration plan to the Director for restoring areas occupied by  
    temporary construction activities, uses or structures.  
  
          b.  The restoration plan must be submitted and approved prior  
    to the applicant vacating the construction site and it must include  
    proposals for cleaning, clearing, removing construction debris,  
    grading, remediation of landscaping, and restoration of grade and  
    drainage.  
  
          c.  Site restoration must generally be accomplished within one  
    hundred eighty (180) days of cessation of use of the site for  
    construction uses and activities, unless otherwise agreed to between  
    the applicant and the Director.  
  
          d.  The Director will approve plans for site restoration in  
    accordance with mitigation plans authorized under this section.  
  
        5.  A master use permit for a temporary structure or use that  
    supports the construction of a light rail transit facility shall not  
    be issued until the Director has received satisfactory evidence that  
    the applicant has obtained sufficient funding (which might include a  
    Full Funding Agreement with a federal agency) to complete the work  
    described in the Master Use Permit application.  
  
    Section 2.  Exhibit A of Section 23.76.004 of the Seattle Municipal  
    Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119974, is amended  
    as follows:  
  
    TYPE I                    TYPE II                   TYPE III  
    Director's Decision        Director's Decision          Hearing Examiner's  
    (No Administrative          (Appealable to              Decision  
    Appeal)                    Hearing Examiner*)            (No Administrative  
                                                              Appeal)  
  
    Compliance with          Temporary uses, more than       Subdivisions  
    development standards    four    weeks                   (preliminary plats)  
  
    Uses permitted outright  Variances  
  
    Temporary uses, four     Administrative conditional  
    weeks or less            uses  
  
    Intermittent uses     Shoreline decisions  
    Certain street uses   (*appealable to Shorelines  
    Lot boundary             Hearings Board along with  
    adjustments              all related environmental  
                             appeals)  
  
    Modifications of         Short subdivisions  
    features bonused under  
    Title 24  
  
    Determinations of        Special Exceptions  
    significance (EIS  
    required) except for     Design review  
    determinations of  
    significance based  
    solely on historic and  
    cultural preservation  
  
    Temporary uses, twelve   Northgate General  
    months or less, for      Development Plan  
    relocation of police  
    and fire protection  
  
    Exemptions from          Light rail transit  
    right-of-way             facilities  
    improvement  
    requirements  
  
    Special accommodation    The following  
    Reasonable               environmental  
    accommodation            determinations:  
  
    Minor amendment to a     Determination of  
    Major Phased             nonsignificance (EIS not  
    Development Permit       required)  
  
                             Determination of final EIS  
                             adequacy  
  
                             Determinations of  
                             significance based solely  
                             on historic and cultural  
                             preservation  
  
                             A decision by the Director  
                             to approve, condition or  
                             deny a project based on  
                             SEPA Policies  
  
                             A decision by the Director  
                             that a project is  
                             consistent with a Planned  
                             Action Ordinance and EIS  
                             (no threshold  
                             determination or EIS  
                             required)  
  
                             Major Phased Development  
  
    COUNCIL LAND USE DECISIONS  
  
       TYPE IV                                TYPE V  
    (quasi judicial)                        (legislative)  
  
    Land use map amendments (rezones)   Land Use Code text amendments  
  
    Public project approvals            Rezones to implement new City Policies  
  
    Major Institution master plans      Concept approval for City facilities  
  
    Council conditional uses            Major Institution designations  
  
    Downtown planned community          Waive or modify development standards  
    developments                        for City facilities  
  
                                        Planned Action Ordinance  
  
      Section 3.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be  
    separate and severable.  The invalidity of any particular provision  
    shall not affect the validity of any other provision.  
  
    Section 4.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    J. Roque Deherrera/JRD  
  
    intermittent.uses.ordinance.v1.doc  
  
    June 13, 2003  
  
    version 1  
