* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114651**   
**Ordinance Number: 121256**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the 2003 Budget; authorizing acceptance of grant funds from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for programs included in the City's Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development; increasing appropriations in the 2003 Budget for activities under the HOME, Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS, and Emergency Shelter Grant programs; revising expenditure allowances in the 2003 Budget for various funds and departments; amending the 2003 Action Plan component of the Consolidated Plan and authorizing other conforming amendments; allocating additional 2003 grant funds and unused funds from prior years; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 2, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 12, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 11, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 4, 2003   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services and Community Development   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER   
  
**Index Terms:** CHILD-CARE, SHELTERS, HOMELESS, AIDS, GRANTS, COMMUNITy-DEVELOPMENT-BLOCK-GRANTS, US-GOVERNMENT, PLANNING, HOUSING, SOCIAL-SERVICES, AGED, DISABLED-PERSONS, LOW-INCOME, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114651.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114651  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the 2003 Budget; authorizing acceptance of  
    grant funds from the United States Department of Housing and Urban  
    Development for programs included in the City's Consolidated Plan for  
    Housing and Community Development; increasing appropriations in the  
    2003 Budget for activities under the HOME, Housing Opportunities for  
    Persons With AIDS, and Emergency Shelter Grant programs; revising  
    expenditure allowances in the 2003 Budget for various funds and  
    departments; amending the 2003 Action Plan component of the  
    Consolidated Plan and authorizing other conforming amendments;  
    allocating additional 2003 grant funds and unused funds from prior  
    years; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 121083, passed February 24, 2003, adopted the 2003  
    Action Plan Worktable as a component of The City of Seattle's 2001-  
    2004 Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development, and  
    authorized the submission of the Action Plan and thereby applied for  
    funds available from the United States Department of Housing and  
    Urban Development (HUD) for a set of prioritized services for  
    community development, human services, economic development, and  
    housing; comprised of four separate entitlement grants, the Community  
    Development Block Grant (CDBG), the HOME program, Housing  
    Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) and the Emergency Shelter  
    Grant (ESG); and  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 120973, passed November 18, 2002, adopted the City  
    Budget for fiscal year 2003 and included appropriations in several  
    City departments based on estimates of the grant awards for the four  
    HUD fund sources listed above; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the grant awards that have been received from HUD for the  
    CDBG, HOME, ESG and HOPWA programs are larger than anticipated, and  
    the authorization levels for these grants made in the 2003 Budget  
    must be adjusted to match approved 2003 funding for the grant  
    activities; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the table of activities in the 2003 Action Plan must be  
    revised to reflect revised 2003 funding levels, to incorporate unused  
    funds from prior years, and to revise allocations to programs and  
    projects; Now, Therefore,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  As requested by the Mayor, the Mayor or his designee is  
    hereby authorized to enter into agreements for financial assistance  
    from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development  
    (HUD) for the following grant programs up to the maximum amounts  
    listed below:  
  
    Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)  
  
    $15,083,000  
  
    HOME  
  
    $  4,748,477  
  
    Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA)  
  
    $  1,700,000  
  
    Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG)  
  
    $     510,000  
  
    The Mayor or his designee is authorized to execute and deliver for  
    and on behalf of The City of Seattle such agreements as may be  
    necessary to accept the financial assistance.  CDBG funds, when  
    received, shall be deposited into the Housing and Community  
    Development Revenue Sharing Fund (17810).  HOME funds, when received,  
    shall be deposited into the HOME Subfund of the Low-Income Housing  
    Fund (16490).  HOPWA and ESG funds, when received, shall be deposited  
    into the Human Services Operating Fund (16200).  The Mayor or his  
    designee is further authorized to execute and deliver such other  
    documents relating to the agreements as may be required in connection  
    therewith.  The agreements and such other documents shall be in form  
    and content consistent with the City Charter and other applicable  
    law.  
  
    Section 2.  A.  The expenditure allowances in the 2003 Budget in the  
    Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund (17810) for  
    the following Budget Control Levels of the following departments and  
    offices are hereby revised as follows:  
  
    Fund  
  
    Department  
  
    Budget Control Level  
  
    Amount of Increase (Decrease)  
  
    17810 - Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund  
  
    Parks and Recreation  
  
    6KH10 - Parks CDBG General Entitlement  
  
    ($272,000)  
  
    17810 - Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund  
  
    Office of Housing  
  
    6XZ81 - OH CDBG Main Fund  
  
    $166,000  
  
    17810 - Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund  
  
    Human Services  
  
    H17810 - HSD CDBG Main Fund  
  
    $106,000  
  
    B. Contingent upon the execution of the grant agreement for 2003 HOME  
    funds and the receipt of sufficient HOME funds as authorized in  
    Section 1 hereof, the appropriations for the following in the 2003  
    Adopted Budget are increased from the subfund shown as follows:  
  
    Fund or Subfund  
  
    Department  
  
    Budget Control Level  
  
    Amount  
  
    16490 - HOME  
  
    Office of Housing  
  
    XZ9002 Multi-Family  
  
    $351,432  
  
    16490 - HOME  
  
    Office of Housing  
  
    XZ9004 Management and Administration  
  
    $  59,848  
  
    To allow the Office of Housing to draw funds from the above  
    appropriations, the appropriation for the following in the 2003  
    Budget is increased from the fund shown as follows:  
  
    Fund or Subfund  
  
    Department  
  
    Budget Control Level  
  
    Amount  
  
    1600 - Office of Housing Operating Fund  
  
    Office of Housing  
  
    XZ600 - Office of Housing  
  
    $  59,848  
  
    C. Contingent upon the execution of the grant agreement for 2003  
    HOPWA funds and the receipt of sufficient HOPWA funds as authorized  
    in Section 1 hereof, the 2003 Adopted Budget is hereby further  
    amended to increase appropriations as follows:  
  
    Fund  
  
    Department  
  
    Budget Control Level  
  
    Amount  
  
    16200 - Human Services Operating Fund  
  
    Human Services  
  
    H30ET - Emergency & Transitional Services  
  
    $59,000  
  
    D.  Contingent upon the execution of the grant agreement for 2003 ESG  
    funds and the receipt of sufficient ESG funds as authorized in  
    Section 1 hereof, the appropriation for the following in the 2003  
    Adopted Budget is increased from the fund shown as follows:  
  
    Fund  
  
    Department  
  
    Budget Control Level  
  
    Amount  
  
    16200 -  Human Services Operating Fund  
  
    Human Services  
  
    H30ET - Emergency & Transitional Services  
  
    $31,634  
  
    Section 3.  The appropriations for the following items in the 2003  
    Budget are revised from the fund shown as follows:  
  
    Fund  
  
    Department  
  
    Budget Control Level  
  
    Amount of Increase (Decrease)  
  
    17810 - Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund  
  
    Office of Economic Development  
  
    6XD10 - OED CDBG General Entitlement  
  
    ($587,500)  
  
    17810 - Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund  
  
    Office of Economic Development  
  
    6XD10 - OED CDBG General Entitlement  
  
    $497,500  
  
    17810 - Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund  
  
    Human Services  
  
    H17810 - CDBG Main Fund  
  
    $90,000  
  
    Section 4.  The appropriations for the following in the 2003 Budget  
    from the funds and subfunds shown are revised, as follows:  
  
    Fund  
  
    Department  
  
    Budget Control Level  
  
    Amount of Increase (Decrease)  
  
    00100 - General Subfund  
  
    Office of Economic Development  
  
    X1D00 - Office of Economic Development  
  
    ($497,500)  
  
    00100-  General Subfund  
  
    Human Services  
  
    H50LA - Leadership and Administration  
  
    ($90,000)  
  
    Section 5.  The revised 2003 Action Plan Worktable, Attachment 1 to  
    this ordinance, is hereby adopted as a component of the 2001-2004  
    Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development, superseding  
    the similar table as adopted by Ordinance 121083.  The Director of  
    the Human Services Department is authorized to make any conforming  
    changes that may be necessary to the 2003 Action Plan and other  
    portions of the current Consolidated Plan to reflect the changes  
    adopted in this section.  
  
    Section 6.  Any unexpended and unencumbered balances of the  
    appropriations made in this ordinance, and any other unspent  
    appropriations in the 2003 Budget from the Low Income Housing Fund  
    (164), Subfund 90, shall carry to subsequent fiscal years until they  
    are exhausted or expressly abandoned by ordinance.  
  
    Section 7.  Execution of the agreements authorized in Section 1  
    hereof, and other acts pursuant to the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance, are hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 8.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
    __________________________________________  
  
    President _________ of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
  
    ____________________________________  
  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003.  
  
    ____________________________________  
  
    City Clerk  
  
    (SEAL)  
  
    Attachment 1: City of Seattle 2003 Action Plan Worktable Revised  
  
    Robert Liston:CB:HRT  
  
    Cons Plan Substantial Amendment Ord  
  
    7/22/03  
  
    Version7  
  
    1  
  
    00  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    2003 ACTION PLAN: BY LOB/PROG  
  
    99  
  
    Page 1 of 27  
  
    01  
     Code  
  
    0001  
    Log #  
  
    Agency Name  
  
    City of Seattle: CDBG, ESG, HOPWA, & HOME  
    Printed July 30, 2003 (3:49PM)  
  
    001  
    Activity  
  
    2002 Allocation  
  
    2003 GF  
  
    2003 CDBG  
  
    2003 ESG  
  
    2003 HOPWA  
  
    2003 HOME  
  
    Prop. 2003 Allocation  
  
    1  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    1: Office of Housing  
  
    99  
  
    11  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    11: Home Ownership and Sustainability  
  
    99  
  
    1109  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    111: Rehabilitation Lending and Investment  
  
    99  
  
    111  
  
    7030C Flanagan  
  
    City of Seattle OH  
  
    Housing Technical Assistance HomeWise Staffing (Citywide)  
    Single-family residential. Support staff cost of managing rehabilitation  
    projects, facilitating rental rehabilitation, providing down payment assistance,  
    contract costs for lead-based paint and Endangered Species Act, and various  
    housing development loan programs throughout the City. Provide staff support for  
    weatherization and energy efficiency improvements in low-income residences.  
    Note: actual costs of home weatherization are supported by various non-CDBG  
    federal, state, and local revenues. (See also Admin: 21A.)  
    Program (14A) $361,279[COMMENT1]; Admin (21A) $69,015.  
    Performance indicator: 1,246 828 housing units.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    14A 202  
    LMH  
    LocGov Programmatic  
  
    CD $830,577  
  
    $361,279  
  
    $361,279  
  
    111  
  
    7030C Flanagan  
  
    City of Seattle OH  
  
    Housing Technical Assistance HomeWise Staffing (Citywide)  
    Single-family residential. Support staff cost of managing rehabilitation  
    projects, facilitating rental rehabilitation, providing down payment assistance,  
    contract costs for lead-based paint and Endangered Species Act, and various  
    housing development loan programs throughout the City. Provide staff support for  
    weatherization and energy efficiency improvements in low-income residences.  
    Note: actual costs of home weatherization are supported by various non-CDBG  
    federal, state, and local revenues. (See also Program: 14A.)  
    [COMMENT2]Performance indicator: NA.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    21A 206  
    LMH  
    LocGov Programmatic  
  
    0  
  
    $69,015  
  
    $69,015  
  
    111  
  
    87060C-PI LaTuchie  
  
    City of Seattle OH  
  
    Rehabilitation Lending & Weatherization Services PI (Citywide)  
    The Homewise rehab program provides loans for repairs for owner-occupied single-  
    family homes. Applicants are served on a first-come, first-served basis subject  
    to eligibility criteria including income, credit, and repair/rehab needs.  
    Households served with housing rehabilitation loans are homeowners with income  
    at or below 80% of area median income or renters with income at or below 60% of  
    median income. $130,000 of CDBG funds expected to be received by HomeWise in  
    2003 have been reprogrammed to Multifamily Loan Fund PI. 10% of Program Income  
    received will be used for program delivery.  
    Performance indicator: 25 housing units.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    24 14A 202  
    LMH  
    LocGov Programmatic  
  
    CDPI 0  
  
    CDPI 526,000  
  
    $526,000  
  
    1115  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            111: Rehabilitation Lending and Investment Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    830,577  
  
    $0  
  
    $956,294  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $956,294  
  
    1119  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    112: Home Buyer Assistance  
  
    99  
  
    112  
  
    7084M  
    LaTuchie  
  
    City of Seattle OH  
  
    Home Buyer Programs (Citywide)  
    The HOME Homeowner funds will be used for eligible home buyer activities for  
    first time homeowners with household incomes at or below 80% of area median  
    income. These funds will be included in a Home Buyer Assistance Notice of  
    Funding Availability (NOFA) to be released in 2003. The NOFA process will be the  
    basis for the selection of other home buyer assistance projects.  
    Performance indicator: 21 26 households (general).  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    27 05R 201(e)  
    LMH  
    LocGov Programmatic  
  
    HM $919,592  
  
    $926,075  
  
    $926,075  
  
    1125  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            112: Home Buyer Assistance Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    919,592  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $926,075  
  
    $926,075  
  
    1129  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    113: Minor Home Repair  
  
    99  
  
    113  
  
    7150C Kirkland  
  
    Senior Services of Seattle & King County  
  
    Minor Home Repair (Citywide)  
    Single-family residential. Provide low-cost inspection and minor home repairs  
    such as plumbing, electrical work, and carpentry in homes of low-income home  
    owners, primarily (but not limited to those) 60 years of age and over. Senior  
    Services will serve all low-income clients in the City.  
    Performance indicator: 725 975 housing units.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    14A 202  
    LMH  
    SubPriv Programmatic  
  
    CD $559,783  
  
    $449,917  
  
    $449,917  
  
    1135  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            113: Minor Home Repair Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    559,783  
  
    $0  
  
    $449,917  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $449,917  
  
    119  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            11: Home Ownership and Sustainability Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    2,309,952  
  
    $1,406,211  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $926,075  
  
    $2,332,286  
  
    12  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    12: Multifamily Production and Preservation  
  
    99  
  
    1209  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    121: Multifamily Lending and Investment  
  
    99  
  
    121  
  
    7170C LaTuchie  
  
    City of Seattle OH  
  
    Multifamily Loan Fund (Citywide)  
    Multi-family residential. Provide gap financing for site acquisition when  
    developing affordable housing, acquisition and rehabilitation of low-income  
    housing in return for fixed-term rental rate and occupancy income restrictions.  
    (Used City-wide.) Projects will be selected through a competitive selection  
    process. In addition to the CDBG Entitlement amount, $128,088 of Program Income  
    [COMMENT3]and $130,000 expected repayments from homeowner rehab loans is  
    allocated to this project. (See also CDBG PI funding.)  
    Performance indicator: 22 40 housing units.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    14B 202  
    LMH  
    LocGov  
  
    CD $75,263  
  
    $867,369 $701,369  
  
    $867,369  
  
    121  
  
    7035C Flanagan  
  
    City of Seattle OH  
  
    Housing Technical Assistance Multifamily Staffing (Citywide)  
    Multi-family residential. Support staff cost of managing rehabilitation  
    projects, facilitating rental rehabilitation and site acquisition when  
    developing affordable housing, compliance with relocation, construction & labor  
    requirements, lead-based paint, Endangered Species Act, NEPA, and various  
    housing development loan programs throughout the City. Program (14B) $406,777;  
    Admin (21A) $67,040. [COMMENT4](See also Admin.: 21A & Planning 20.)  
    Performance indicator: 355 544 housing units.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    14B 202  
    LMH  
    LocGov  
  
    CD $446,446  
  
    $208,460 $473,817  
  
    $208,460  
  
    121  
  
    7035C Flanagan  
  
    City of Seattle OH  
  
    Housing Technical Assistance Multifamily Staffing (Citywide)  
    Multi-family residential. Support staff cost of managing rehabilitation  
    projects, facilitating rental rehabilitation and site acquisition when  
    developing affordable housing, compliance with relocation, construction & labor  
    requirements, lead-based paint, Endangered Species Act, NEPA, and various  
    housing development loan programs throughout the City. (See also Program 14B &  
    Admin. 21A.) [COMMENT5]  
    Performance indicator: 544 housing units. NA.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    20 205  
    LMH  
    LocGov  
  
    $102,965  
  
    $102,965  
  
    121  
  
    7035C Flanagan  
  
    City of Seattle OH  
  
    Housing Technical Assistance Multifamily Staffing (Citywide)  
    Multi-family residential. Support staff cost of managing rehabilitation  
    projects, facilitating rental rehabilitation and site acquisition when  
    developing affordable housing, compliance with relocation, construction & labor  
    requirements, lead-based paint, Endangered Species Act, NEPA, and various  
    housing development loan programs throughout the City. (See also Program 14B &  
    Planning 20. [COMMENT6]  
    Performance indicator: 544 housing units. NA.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    21A 206  
    LMH  
    LocGov  
  
    $162,391 $67,040  
  
    $162,391  
  
    121  
  
    7086M-PI Latuchie  
  
    City of Seattle OH  
  
    HOME Rental Preservation & Development PI (Citywide)  
     Program income from HOME-funded single family rehabilitation loans will be used  
    for the development of multifamily housing projects. 10% of program income  
    received will be used for program delivery costs.  
    Performance indicator: 6 7 units  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    24 14B 202  
    [LMH]  
    LocGov  
  
    HM  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    [COMMENT7]  
  
    $208,000 $187,200  
  
    $208,000  
  
    121  
  
    87170C-PI LaTuchie  
  
    City of Seattle OH  
  
    Multifamily Loan Fund PI (Citywide)  
    Multi-family residential. Provide gap financing for acquisition and  
    rehabilitation of low-income housing in return for fixed-term rental rate and  
    occupancy income restrictions. (Used City-wide.) One or two projects will be  
    selected through a competitive selection process. Includes $128,088 expected  
    repayments to the Multifamily Revolving Loan Fund and $130,000 expected  
    repayments from homeowner rehab loans. 10% of Program Income will be used for  
    program delivery. [COMMENT8](See also CDBG entitlement funding.)  
    Performance indicator: 7 10 housing units.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    24 14B 202  
    LMH  
    LocGov  
  
    CDPI $1,028,088  
  
    $258,088  
  
    $258,088  
  
    121  
  
    7086M LaTuchie  
  
    City of Seattle OH  
  
    Rental Unit Preservation & Development (Citywide)  
    Preservation and development of rental units (in multi-family buildings)  
    occupied by small and large families and single individuals. Income group served  
    to be consistent with HOME Program regulations. The City's multi-family housing  
    projects, unlike other capital projects, do not receive approval through the  
    Capital Improvement Program and the annual budget process. Instead, OH selects  
    housing projects through a Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) process. The  
    NOFA process ensures selection of multi-family projects on a competitive basis  
    and not on a first-come, first-served basis. The competitive process allows the  
    city to review several projects at once and allocate various funds in order to  
    maximize City housing dollars. The Office of Housing will issue 2 NOFAs in 2003.  
    Up to $163,000 can be provided for CHDO operating support for Sand Point  
    redevelopment activities.  
    Performance indicator: 75 108 housing units.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    27 14B 202  
    [LMH]  
    LocGov  
  
    HM $2,628,058  
  
    [COMMENT9]  
  
    $2,997,554 $2,646,125  
  
    $2,997,554  
  
    1215  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            121: Multifamily Lending and Investment Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    4,177,855  
  
    $0  
  
    $1,599,273  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $3,205,554  
  
    $4,804,827  
  
    1229  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    123: Asset Management  
  
    99  
  
    123  
  
    7172C Erickson  
  
    City of Seattle OH  
  
    Low-Income Housing Development Services (N/A)  
    Additional funding for HomeSight for homebuyer education and counseling.  
    Performance indicator: 20 18 housing units.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    01 201(a) LMH LocGov  
  
    CD $507,647  
  
    $216,989  
  
    $216,989  
  
    1235  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            123: Asset Management Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    507,647  
  
    $0  
  
    $216,989  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $216,989  
  
    129  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            12: Multifamily Production and Preservation Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    4,685,502  
  
    $0  
  
    $1,816,262  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $3,205,554  
  
    $5,021,816  
  
    13  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    13: Community Development  
  
    99  
  
    1329  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    133: Housing Planning and Resource Development  
  
    99  
  
    133  
  
    7035C Hooper  
  
    City of Seattle OH  
  
    Housing Technical Assistance Planning Staffing (Citywide)  
    Community Development Unit of the Office of Housing will develop and evaluate  
    City housing strategies, goals, and policies for low-income housing; update the  
    Housing Element of the Consolidated Plan, including a new SOA framework; work  
    with neighborhoods and developers to include affordable housing in redevelopment  
    strategies; identify program strategies to reach low-income populations, such as  
    service workers, teachers, seniors, people with disabilities, and homebuyers;  
    identify ways to combine housing with other economic development resources to  
    reinvest in targeted neighborhoods.  
    Performance indicator: NA  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    20 205 LMC LocGov  
  
    CD $550,183  
  
    $431,526  
  
    $431,526  
  
    1339  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            133: Housing Planning and Resource Development Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    550,183  
  
    $0  
  
    $431,526  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $431,526  
  
    139  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            13: Community Development Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    550,183  
  
    $0  
  
    $431,526  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $431,526  
  
    14  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    14: Administration & Management Corporate Services  
  
    99  
  
    1419  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    142: Management Support Services  
  
    99  
  
    142  
  
    8006M Hanagan  
  
    City of Seattle OH  
  
    HOME Administration (Office: 618 2nd Avenue) Fund City costs of implementing the  
    HOME program.  
    Performance indicator: 1 org.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    27 21A 206  
    [LMH]  
    LocGov  
  
    HM $432,800  
  
    [COMMENT10]  
  
    $474,848 $435,800  
  
    $474,848  
  
    1425  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            142: Management Support Services Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    432,800  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $474,848  
  
    $474,848  
  
    149  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            14: Administration & Management Corporate Services  Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    432,800  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $474,848  
  
    $474,848  
  
    19  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            1: Office of Housing Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    7,978,437  
  
    $0  
  
    $3,653,999  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $4,606,477  
  
    $8,260,476  
  
    2  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    2: Human Services Department  
  
    99  
  
    2105  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    21: Leadership & Management Services [H5]  
  
    99  
  
    2119  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    212: Communications [H5100]  
  
    99  
  
    212 H5100  
  
    8030C  
  
    City of Seattle HSD  
  
    Human Services Planning (618 Second Avenue: Citywide)  
    Staff will develop and evaluate City human service strategies, goals, policies,  
    and programs for low- and moderate-income households, including those of people  
    who are homeless or who have special needs. [Also includes Line of Business:  
    Program 244. See addendum.]Use $53,414 in CDBG in Block Grant Administration in  
    order to facilitate the Community Development Fund. The CDF is a loan fund  
    intended to lessen the impact of light rail on Rainier Valley businesses and  
    property owners..CSD Unit: $202,806; Director's Office: $143,414  
    Performance indicator: 1 organization.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    20 205 LMC LocGov  
  
    CD $389,244  
  
    $53,414  
  
    $292,806  
  
    $346,220  
  
    2125  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            212: Communications Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    389,244  
  
    $53,414  
  
    $292,806  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $346,220  
  
    2149  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    215: Grants & Budget Administration [H55]  
  
    99  
  
    215  
  
    8010C Price  
  
    City of Seattle HSD CBO  
  
    Block Grant Administration (Office: 618 2nd Avenue)  
    Provide administration and technical assistance to City departments and  
    community-based organizations so they can implement CDBG and other HUD grant  
    funds and programs in an efficient, accountable, and responsive manner.[Also  
    contributes to Lines of Business: Programs 216, 211, 212, & 241: see addendum.]  
    Use $111,586 $255,000 in CDBG in Block Grant Administration in order to  
    facilitate the Community Development Fund.  
    [CDBG Unit: $517,000 $411,055; HSD Admin: $278,806; SPO: $0; CBO: $52,612;  
    Indirect (21B): $610,194. CSD Unit: $181,612; Director's Office: $108,362  
    Performance indicator: 5 organizations.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    21A 206  
    LMC  
    LocGov  
  
    CD $1,490,736  
  
    $111,586  
  
    $1,358,194  
  
    $1,469,780  
  
    2155  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            215: Grants & Budget Administration Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    1,490,736  
  
    $111,586  
  
    $1,358,194  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $1,469,780  
  
    2167  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            21: Leadership & Corporate Services Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    1,879,980  
  
    $165,000  
  
    $1,651,000  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $1,816,000  
  
    2205  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    22: Aging & Disability Services [H6]  
  
    99  
  
    2209  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    221: Home Based Care [H62]  
  
    99  
  
    221  
    222  
  
    1235C Meinig  
  
    City of Seattle HSD  
  
    Public Housing Case Management (Citywide: SHA facilities)  
    Seattle Housing Authority (SHA) residents are able to live as independently and  
    safely as possible in a safe and healthy environment, avoiding unnecessary  
    hospitalization or relocation to other residences. To achieve this, residents  
    are provided with a broad range of services, support and access to community  
    services.  
    Performance indicator: 1,388 people (general).  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05 201(e)  
    LMC  
    LocGov  
  
    CD $264,621  
  
    $264,621  
  
    $264,621  
  
    221  
    222  
  
    1231C Meinig  
  
    CISC  
  
    Public Housing Case Management (Citywide: SHA facilities)  
    Seattle Housing Authority (SHA) residents are able to live as independently and  
    safely as possible in a safe and healthy environment, avoiding unnecessary  
    hospitalization or relocation to other residences. To achieve this, residents  
    are provided with a broad range of services, support and access to community  
    services.  
    Performance indicator: 140 people (general).  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $16,691  
  
    $16,691  
  
    $16,691  
  
    221  
    222  
  
    1233C Meinig  
  
    ACRS  
  
    Public Housing Case Management (Citywide: SHA facilities)  
    Seattle Housing Authority (SHA) residents are able to live as independently and  
    safely as possible in a safe and healthy environment, avoiding unnecessary  
    hospitalization or relocation to other residences. To achieve this, residents  
    are provided with a broad range of services, support and access to community  
    services.  
    Performance indicator: 76 people (general).  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $25,668  
  
    $25,668  
  
    $25,668  
  
    2215  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            221: Home Based Care Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    306,980  
  
    $0  
  
    $306,980  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $306,980  
  
    2219  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    222: Healthy Aging Senior Wellness [H64]  
  
    99  
  
    222  
    221  
  
    1250C  
    Pope  
  
    Senior Services of Seattle/King County  
  
    Home Sharing for Seniors (Citywide)  
    Homesharing for Seniors is an intergenerational, alternative housing program  
    that helps older adults stay in their homes by helping them find someone to  
    share their home for rent or in exchange for services. The program helps older  
    adults remain independent and in their own homes while providing affordable,  
    safe housing choices for people of all ages. Older people who are looking for  
    help with household chores or a modest rent are matched with carefully screened,  
    compatible persons looking for a place to live.  
    Performance indicator: 40 elderly.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05A 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD 65,650  
  
    $65,650  
  
    $65,650  
  
    2225  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            222: Healthy Aging Senior Wellness Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    65,650  
  
    $0  
  
    $65,650  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $65,650  
  
    2247  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            22: Aging & Disability Services Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    372,630  
  
    $0  
  
    $372,630  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $372,630  
  
    2305  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    23: Children, Youth, & Family Development [H2]  
  
    99  
  
    2309  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    231: Child Development [H21]  
  
    99  
  
    231  
  
    2360C Tumbleson  
  
    City of Seattle HSD  
  
    Comprehensive Child Care Services (N/A)  
    Provide subsidy for child care services to children of low-income persons to  
    assist their employment and training opportunities and support the children's  
    optimal development in high quality child care settings.  
    Performance indicator: 199 Households (general).  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05L 201(e)  
    LMC  
    LocGov  
  
    CD 574,531  
  
    $574,531  
  
    $574,531  
  
    2315  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            231: Child Development Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    574,531  
  
    $0  
  
    $574,531  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $574,531  
  
    2319  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    232: Youth Development [H22]  
  
    99  
  
    232  
  
    2030C Tumbleson  
  
    United Indians of All Tribes Found  
  
    I-w'a-sil Youth Program (2524 16th Ave S, 98144)  
    Provide counseling and supportive services to low-income homeless street youth,  
    including basic life skills, crisis counseling, substance abuse evaluation and  
    counseling, health services, and cultural education.  
    Performance indicator: 30 youth.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD 76,187  
  
    $76,187  
  
    $76,187  
  
    232  
  
    2060C Tumbleson  
  
    Youthcare  
  
    Straley House (5602 15th Avenue NE, 98105)  
    Provide transitional housing and supportive services, including clinical  
    assessment, case management, substance abuse counseling, living skills  
    instruction and vocational training services to homeless youth aged 18 to 21.  
    Performance indicator: 20 youth.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD 23,363  
  
    $23,363  
  
    $23,363  
  
    232  
  
    2010CE Tumbleson  
  
    Catholic Community Services  
  
    Denny Place Youth Shelter (210 Dexter Avenue N, 98109)  
    Provide emergency shelter, food, counseling and information and referral  
    services for homeless males, 16 to 20 years of age.  
    Performance indicator: 144 youth.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    35,993  
    [CD 28,037  
    ES 7,956]  
  
    $28,037  
  
    $0  
  
    $28,037  
  
    232  
  
    2070CE Tumbleson  
  
    Youthcare  
  
    The Shelter (2500 NE 54th St., 98105)  
    Provide emergency shelter and supportive services including family and group  
    counseling, meals, medical care, recreational activities and related services to  
    homeless youth, ages 11 to 17.  
    Performance indicator: 60 youth.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    69,967  
    [CD 62,287  
     ES 7,680]  
  
    $62,287  
  
    $7,680  
  
    $69,967  
  
    232  
  
    2020C Tumbleson  
  
    Catholic Community Services  
  
    University District Youth Center (4516 15th Ave. NE, 98105)  
    Provide street outreach, case management, counseling, and supportive services to  
    homeless or low-income youth.  
    Performance indicator: 140 youth.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD 66,217  
  
    $66,217  
  
    $66,217  
  
    232  
  
    2050C Tumbleson  
  
    YMCA of Greater Seattle  
  
    Young Adults in Transition (909 4th Avenue, 98104)  
    Provide transitional housing and case management services to homeless male and  
    female young adults 18 to 22 years of age.  
    Performance indicator: 25 youth.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD 113,540  
  
    $113,540  
  
    $113,540  
  
    232  
  
    2040CE Tumbleson  
  
    YMCA of Greater Seattle  
  
    Aloha House Shelter/ Operations (902 15th Avenue E, 98122)  
    Provide 24-hour short term housing with case management, mental health services,  
    and referral to other needed services.  
    Performance indicator: 40 youth.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    61,937  
    [CD 54,258  
    ES 7,679]  
  
    $54,258  
  
    $15,513  
  
    $69,771  
  
    232  
  
    2080C Tumbleson  
  
    Youthcare  
  
    Orion Multi-service Street Youth Center (1020 Virginia St, 98101)  
    Provide outreach, case management, and supportive counseling services to  
    homeless street youth.  
    Performance indicator: 200 youth..  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD 111,911  
  
    $111,911  
  
    $111,911  
  
    232  
  
    7416E Painter  
  
    Shalom Zone Nonprofit Association  
  
    University Temple Young Adult Shelter  (1415 NE 43rd, 98104)  
    Provide safe emergency, overnight shelter to street involved youth and young  
    adults ages 18-25.  
    Performance indicator: 50 youth.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    26 03T 201(e)  
    [LMC]  
    LocGov  
  
    ES $0  
  
    $7,680  
  
    $7,680  
  
    2325  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            232: Youth Development Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    590,977  
  
    $0  
  
    $535,800  
  
    $30,873  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $566,673  
  
    2347  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            23: Children, Youth, & Family Development Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    1,165,508  
  
    $0  
  
    $1,110,331  
  
    $30,873  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $1,141,204  
  
    2405  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    24: Community Services  
  
    99  
  
    2409  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    241: Community Facilities  
  
    99  
  
    241  
  
    3010C Painter  
  
    Environ-mental Works  
  
    Community Design Center - Architectural Services (Citywide)  
    Provide construction, design, and planning assistance to nonprofit community  
    agencies and community economic development projects that serve low- and  
    moderate-income people. Approximately 30 organizations will receive 2,470 hours  
    of technical assistance during the year.  
    Program Delivery (03): $90,000; Planning (20): $78,000. (See also Planning: 20.)  
    Performance indicator: 30 public facilities.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03 201(c)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $236,457  
  
    $90,000 $168,000  
  
    $90,000  
  
    241  
  
    3060C Painter  
  
    City of Seattle HSD  
  
    Facilities and Services Project Management (Citywide)  
    Fund staff support for human service physical development initiatives; projects  
    proposed by community-based organizations and funded through a competitive  
    process (RFP); projects may include planning, predevelopment/ design,  
    acquisition, new construction or rehabilitation.  
    Performance indicator: 30 25 facility projects managed.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03 201(c)  
    LMC  
    LocGov  
  
    CD $316,012  
  
    [COMMENT11]  
  
    $222,969 $324,165  
  
    $222,969  
  
    241  
  
    Look  
  
    City of Seattle HSD  
  
    Small & Emerging Agencies Capital Assistance Program (Citywide)  
    Provide for a pilot project to demonstrate and evaluate a streamlined way to  
    make facilities improvement financing available for small agencies without the  
    staff or paid assistance to address these needs effectively. Specific projects  
    will be determined through a screening process to be held in the spring of the  
    year.  
    [Program is using $150,000 in 2001 CDBG funding.]  
    Performance indicator: 2 facility projects.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03 201(c)  
    LMC  
    LocGov  
  
    $0  
  
    241  
  
    3119C Painter  
  
    City of Seattle HSD  
  
    Community Facilities RFP (Citywide)  
    Make funding allocations through a competitive Request for Proposals process to  
    various community-based organizations for planning, acquisition, construction,  
    or renovation activities. Provide funding for a number of capital improvement  
    projects proposed by community-based agencies serving low- to moderate-income  
    clients and neighborhoods. Awards will be announced in mid-September.  
    Performance indicator: 4 facilities projects.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2004  
  
    03 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    CD $1,378,311  
  
    [COMMENT12]  
  
    $365,988 $357,835  
  
    $365,988  
  
    241  
  
    3250C  
    Look  
  
    City of Seattle, HSD  
  
    Hygiene Centers RFP (Citywide)  
    This project will provide funding for acquisition, construction, [COMMENT13]and  
    physical rehabilitation for hygiene and day centers serving homeless men and  
    women. Funds will be allocated through a competitive RFP process. Compass  
    Center: $250,000; Urban Rest Stop-LIHI:$225,000; YouthCare-Orion Center:  
    $225,000; Pike Market Senior Center: $100,000.  
    Performance indicator: 2 4 hygiene facility projects.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2004.  
  
    03C 201(c)  
    LMC  
    LocGov  
  
    $1,930,780  
  
    $0  
  
    $800,000  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $800,000  
  
    241  
  
    3010C Painter  
  
    Environ-mental Works  
  
    Community Design Center - Architectural Services (Citywide)  
    Provide construction, design, and planning assistance to nonprofit community  
    agencies and community economic development projects that serve low- and  
    moderate-income people. Approximately 30 organizations will receive 2,470 hours  
    of technical assistance during the year. (See also Program Delivery: 03.) :  
    $90,000; Planning (20): $78,000.  
    Performance indicator: 30 public facilities. NA.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    20 205  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    $78,000  
  
    $78,000  
  
    2415  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            241: Community Facilities Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $1,556,957  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $1,556,957  
  
    2419  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    242: Emergency & Transitional Services  
  
    99  
  
    242  
  
    7400C Pulido  
  
    Arch-diocesan Housing Authority  
  
    Lazarus Day Center Operations (416 2nd Ave, 98104)  
    Provide hygiene and laundry facilities, light snacks or meals, and information  
    to homeless men and women aged 50 and older.  
    Performance indicator: 1,500 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $67,957  
  
    $67,957  
  
    $67,957  
  
    242  
  
    7700C  
    Botz  
  
    Church Council of Greater Seattle  
  
    Homelessness Project (Citywide: 12 service sites located throughout Seattle,  
    access site is 4759 15th Avenue NE, 98105)  
    Provide transitional housing, case management, and support services for homeless  
    families with children for up to 18 months.  
    Performance indicator: 100 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $25,944  
  
    $25,944  
  
    $25,944  
  
    242  
  
    7690C Pulido  
  
    Arch-diocesan Housing Authority  
  
    Aloha Inn (1911 Aurora Avenue N, 98109)  
    Partially support operation of a self-managed transitional housing facility  
    serving previously homeless men and women.  
    Performance indicator: 300 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(c) LMC SubPriv  
  
    CD $220,736  
  
    $220,736  
  
    $220,736  
  
    242  
  
    7650C  
    Botz  
  
    YWCA of Seattle- King County  
  
    Emergency Housing For Families (2820 E. Cherry Street, 98122)  
    Provide emergency shelter for 2- and 1-parent homeless families; also provide  
    supportive services.  
    Performance indicator: 379 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $75,183  
  
    $75,183  
  
    $75,183  
  
    242  
  
    7430C Pulido  
  
    Arch-diocesan Housing Authority  
  
    St. Martin De Porres Shelter (1561 Alaskan Way S, 98134)  
    Provide emergency shelter and supportive services including food, clothing,  
    showers, hygiene assistance, storage facilities and related assistance to male  
    homeless individuals over 50 years old.  
    Performance indicator: 550 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $240,961  
  
    $312,579 $240,961  
  
    $312,579  
  
    242  
  
    7640C  
    Botz  
  
    YWCA of Seattle- King County  
  
    Downtown Shelter For Women and Children (1118 5th Avenue, 98101)  
    Provide emergency shelter and counseling services for homeless women and  
    children in crisis.  
    Performance indicator: 300 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $151,561  
  
    $151,561  
  
    $151,561  
  
    242  
  
    7410C Pulido  
  
    Arch-diocesan Housing Authority  
  
    Noel House Operations (2301 Second Avenue, 98121)  
    Provide emergency shelter, meals, hygiene, and supportive services to homeless  
    women. (21,900 bed nights.)  
    Performance indicator: 700 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $350,823  
  
    [COMMENT14]  
  
    $426,112 $350,823  
  
    $426,112  
  
    242  
  
    7420C  
    Botz  
  
    Arch-diocesan Housing Authority  
  
    Sacred Heart Shelter (232 Warren Avenue N, 98109)  
    Provide shelter, food, and supportive services to homeless 1- or 2-parent  
    families with children and single women for up to 3 months. Services include  
    needs assessment, referrals, counseling, goal setting, and other assistance  
    (8,000 bed nights.)  
    Performance indicator: 115 households (general).  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $138,943  
  
    $138,943  
  
    $138,943  
  
    242  
  
    7750C  
    Botz  
  
    Seattle Emergency Housing Service  
  
    Transitional Housing SE Seattle (5900 37th Avenue S, 98126)  
    Provide transitional housing and case management services for homeless families  
    for up to 6 months.  
    Performance indicator: 63 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPub  
  
    CD $27,093  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    242  
  
    7500C  
    Botz  
  
    El Centro de la Raza  
  
    Housing Case Management (2524 16th Avenue S, 98144)  
    Provide bilingual case management services to assist homeless Chicano/Latino  
    families and individuals and other low-income residents of southeast and  
    southwest Seattle to obtain and maintain permanent, affordable housing. Limited  
    emergency housing vouchers or first months rent assistance may be provided as  
    part of case plan.  
    Performance indicator: 240 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    CBDO  
  
    CD $111,063  
  
    $111,063  
  
    $111,063  
  
    242  
  
    7590C  
    Botz  
  
    Seattle Indian Center  
  
    Emergency Services (611 12th Avenue S, 98144)  
    Provide emergency shelter for homeless families, couples, and adults with  
    children, and supportive services including food, hygiene kits, infant supplies,  
    and telephone services.  
    Performance indicator: 72 households (general).  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $44,525  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    242  
  
    7460CE Pulido  
  
    Downtown Emergency Service Center  
  
    Emergency Shelter Program (517 3rd Ave, 98104)  
    Provide emergency shelter and supportive services for homeless adult persons.  
    HSP: $405,492; GF: $247,002  
    Performance indicator: 8,700 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPub  
  
    313,413  
    [CD $8,997  
    ES $304,416]  
  
    $395,312  
  
    $312,250  
  
    $707,562  
  
    242  
  
    7520CE Botz  
  
    Fremont Public Association  
  
    Bethlehem House Family Emergency Shelter (Citywide)  
    Provide emergency shelter, counseling and housing vouchers and extended stay  
    shelter to homeless families.  
    Performance indicator: 200 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    CBDO  
  
    134,263  
    [CD $116,434  
    ES $17,829]  
  
    $116,434  
  
    $17,829  
  
    $134,263  
  
    242  
  
    7510C  
    Botz  
  
    Fremont Public Association  
  
    Broadview Emergency and Transitional Shelter (420 Terry Avenue, 98104)  
    Provide temporary emergency shelter and transitional housing to homeless single  
    women and single women with children. Services include shelter, crisis  
    intervention, counseling, and supportive counseling. [Now incorporates Log  
    7710C]  
    Performance indicator: 399 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    CBDO  
  
    CD $423,478  
  
    $423,478  
  
    $423,478  
  
    242  
  
    7630C Pulido  
  
    YWCA of Seattle- King County  
  
    Angeline's Day Center (1118 5th Avenue, 98101)  
    Provide a daytime shelter for chronically homeless low-income women. Services  
    include hygiene, laundry, and supportive services.  
    Performance indicator: 1,200 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $283,602  
  
    [COMMENT15]  
  
    $316,370 $415,773  
  
    $316,370  
  
    242  
  
    7540CE Chapman  
  
    New Beginnings  
  
    New Beginnings Shelter For Battered Women (Restricted address)  
    Provide shelter, crisis intervention, counseling, support and referral services  
    to women and children who are victims of domestic violence.  
    Performance indicator: 425 persons at risk of homelessness.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05G 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    182,588  
    [CD 174,754  
    ES 7,834]  
  
    $174,754  
  
    $7,834  
  
    $182,588  
  
    242  
  
    7740C Chapman  
  
    Salvation Army  
  
    Hickman House (Restricted address)  
    Provide transitional housing to women and children victims of domestic violence  
    through the use of 9 furnished 1- and 2-bedroom apartments for up to 6 months,  
    including supportive counseling and referral services.  
    Performance indicator: 50 persons at risk of homelessness.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05G 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD 27,384  
  
    $27,384  
  
    $27,384  
  
    242  
  
    7570E Chapman  
  
    Salvation Army  
  
    Catherine Booth House (Restricted Address)  
    Provide confidential temporary shelter to women and children victims of domestic  
    violence. Services include shelter, crisis intervention, and supportive  
    counseling.  
    Performance indicator: 380 persons at risk of homelessness.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05G 2603T 201(e)  
    [LMC]  
    SubPriv  
  
    ES 7,834  
  
    $7,834  
  
    $7,834  
  
    242  
  
    8005E Poole  
  
    City of Seattle HSD  
  
    Emergency Shelter Grant Program Administration (Office: 618 2nd Avenue)  
    Emergency Shelter Grant Program Administration  
    Performance indicator: 1 organization.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    26 21A 206  
    [LMC]  
    LocGov  
  
    ES 26,000  
  
    [COMMENT16]  
  
    $25,500 $26,000  
  
    $25,500  
  
    242  
  
    7415HE Pulido  
  
    Low Income Housing Institute  
  
    Urban Reststop Essential Services (1922 9th Ave, 98121 )  
    Provide toilets, showers, washers, dryers, temporary storage, and waiting areas  
    to homeless adults. Carryover $15,634 from 2002 allocation.  
    Performance indicator: 3,000 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    26 03T 201(e)  
    [LMC]  
    LocGov  
  
    ES 117,535  
  
    [COMMENT17]  
  
    $123,669  
  
    $123,669  
  
    242  
  
    7414E Pulido  
  
    Operation Nightwatch  
  
    Severe Weather Program (91 Wall St, 98121)  
    Provide street count and overflow severe weather program with First Ave Service  
    Center to homeless persons.  
    Performance indicator: 712 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    26 03T 201(e)  
    [LMC]  
    SubPriv  
  
    ES 7,834  
  
    [COMMENT18]  
  
    $0 $7,834  
  
    $0  
  
    242  
  
    7560M Botz  
  
    Salvation Army  
  
    Homeless Family Assistance/Eviction Prevention Program (1101 Pike Street:  
    Citywide)  
    Provide case management, rental subsidies, and support services for families who  
    are homeless and at risk of homelessness. Homeless families assisted for 6  
    months to secure and maintain housing. Eviction Prevention households assisted  
    for 3 to 6 months or until family is able to maintain market rent or subsidized  
    housing is available.  
    Performance indicator: 120 households (general).  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    27 03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    342,680  
    [CD $123,905 HM $218,775]  
  
    $350,000  
  
    $350,000  
  
    2425  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            242: Emergency & Transitional Services Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    3,321,400  
  
    $0  
  
    $2,983,810  
  
    $494,916  
  
    $0  
  
    $350,000  
  
    $3,828,726  
  
    2429  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    243: Tenant Stabilization  
  
    99  
  
    243  
  
    7874C Betts  
  
    Lifelong AIDS Alliance  
  
    Housing Assistance Services (127 Broadway Ave E, 98102)  
    Provide housing units for short to medium term residency, housing information  
    and referral services, and limited supportive services to persons disabled by  
    AIDS, and provide rent assistance to maintain HOPWA-eligible clients in their  
    homes. [Incorporates 7730C.]  
    Performance indicator: 136 persons with HIV/AIDS.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $62,941  
  
    [COMMENT19]  
  
    $509,250 $62,941  
  
    $509,250  
  
    243  
  
    Oki  
  
    To be determined  
  
    Rental Assistance (Citywide)  
    Provide rental assistance with case management services to low-income households  
    who are transitioning out of homelessness or at-risk of eviction. Funds will be  
    allocated based on a request for proposals process to be conducted during the  
    summer.  
    Performance indicator: 4,000 households (general).  
    Start date: 6/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC SubPriv  
  
    $99,403  
  
    $99,403  
  
    243  
  
    7720C Chea  
  
    Compass Center  
  
    Recovery Transitional Housing (77 S. Washington St, 98104)  
    Provide transitional housing for homeless men and women in recovery from  
    substance abuse, including case management and supportive counseling. (6,060 bed  
    nights.)  
    Performance indicator: 75 persons who are homeless.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03T 201(e)  
    LMC SubPriv  
  
    CD $14,827  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
  
    243  
  
    7320C Betts  
  
    Plymouth Housing Group  
  
    Housing Support Services (Service Sites: 2201 1st Avenue, 98101; 2205 1st  
    Avenue, 98101; 107 Pine Street, 98101; 1521 7th Avenue, 98121;and 619 3rd  
    Avenue, 98104)  
    Place low-income tenants in permanent affordable housing and provide client  
    assessment and referral services to link tenants with support services such as  
    financial resources, employment counseling.  
    Performance indicator: 90 persons at risk of homelessness.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $63,801  
  
    $54,278  
  
    $54,278  
  
    243  
  
    7260C Betts  
  
    Arch-diocesan Housing Authority  
  
    St. Martin's on Westlake (2008 Westlake Avenue N, 98102)  
    Provide desk security and other supportive services to men over 55 years of age  
    at risk of homelessness.  
    Performance indicator: 60 persons at risk of homelessness.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $27,700  
  
    $23,566  
  
    $23,566  
  
    243  
  
    7364C Betts  
  
    Family Services  
  
    Resident Choices (9714 3rd Avenue NE, 98117)  
    Provide case management, therapeutic, and family support services to residents  
    of Seattle Housing Authority's High Point Garden Community and residents of  
    other public housing units in West and North Seattle.  
    Performance indicator: 210 people (general).  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05 201(e) LMC SubPriv  
  
    CD $265,411  
  
    $225,797  
  
    $225,797  
  
    243  
  
    7363C Betts  
  
    YWCA of Seattle King County  
  
    Project Self-sufficiency (Citywide)  
    Serve families living in Section 8 and scattered site public housing in Central  
    and Southeast Seattle who have multiple barriers to self-sufficiency; this  
    program will assist them in finding suitable housing, increasing family  
    stability, developing work skills, and entering employment.  
    Performance indicator: 140 people (general).  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05 201(e)  
    LMC SubPriv  
  
    CD $101,366  
  
    $86,237  
  
    $86,237  
  
    243  
  
    7362C Betts  
  
    Neighborhood House  
  
    Project REACH (905 Spruce Street, 98104; 4500 Martin Luther King Jr Way South,  
    98118)  
    Provide comprehensive case management assistance to low-income and at-risk  
    residents in the SHA garden communities of Yesler Terrace and Rainier Vista to  
    help them maintain their permanent housing and obtain and retain employment.  
    Performance indicator: 240 people (general).  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05 201(e)  
    LMC SubPriv  
  
    CD $265,411  
  
    $225,797  
  
    $225,797  
  
    243  
  
    7370C  
     Betts  
  
    Inter-national District Housing Alliance  
  
    Eviction Prevention Services (Citywide)  
    Provide information and assistance to avert eviction through support services.  
    Performance indicator: 400 households.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05K 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $69,669  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    243  
  
    7369C  
    Betts  
  
    Legal Action Center  
  
    Eviction Prevention Services (Citywide)  
    Provide information and assistance to avert eviction through support services  
    and ERACE (GF).  
    Performance indicator: 200 households.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05K 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $41,706  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    243  
  
    7380C Betts  
  
    Tenants Union  
  
    Technical Assistance to At-Risk Tenants (Citywide)  
    Provide a telephone hotline for tenants, information and referral, and workshops  
    on landlord/tenant counseling. Provide in-depth conseling to tenants at  
    immediate risk of eviction.  
    Performance indicator: 240 households (general).  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05K 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $78,960  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    243  
  
    7371C Betts  
  
    Fremont Public Associa-tion  
  
    Eviction Prevention Services (Citywide)  
    Provide city-wide services including: telephone hotline for tenants, information  
    and referral, counseling, outreach, relocation services, and workshops on  
    landlord/tenant relationships, and, as lead agency, maintain a coordinated  
    intake system for countywide tenant services.  
    Performance indicator: 360 households (general).  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05K 201(e)  
    LMC  
    SubPriv  
  
    CD $63,465  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    243  
  
    8007P Betts  
  
    City of Seattle HSD  
  
    HOPWA Grantee Administration (Office: 618 2nd Avenue)  
    Costs of HSD to administer HOPWA-funded programs in the King/Snohomish/Island  
    Counties EMSA .  
    Performance indicator: 1 organization.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    28 03T 201(e)  
    [LMC]  
    LocGov  
  
    HP $45,780  
  
    $51,000 $49,230  
  
    $51,000  
  
    243 01  
  
    7870P Betts  
  
    Downtown Emergency Service Center  
  
    Lyon Building Housing and Supportive Services (507 3rd Ave, 98104)  
    Agency will serve persons disabled by AIDS for medium to long term residency in  
    its Lyon Building facility, provide limited daily assisted living support, and  
    provide assistance with placement into other long term housing as needed.  
    Performance Indicator:12 persons with HIV/AIDS annually.  
    Start Date: 1/1/2003 - Completion Date: 12/31/2004  
  
    28 03T 201(e)  
    [LMC]  
    SubPriv  
  
    $121,209  
  
    $121,209  
  
    243 02  
  
    7870P Betts  
  
    Bailey Boushay House  
  
    Adult Day Health (2720 East Madison St., 98112)  
    Provides medication management, meals, physical therapy, occupational therapy,  
    mental health counseling, and other intensive support services to very low  
    income AIDS-disabled persons. This program provides the structured, supportive  
    environment these very fragile individuals require to remain healthy and  
    behaviorally stable. Without these services, the typical client would be unable  
    to maintain independent housing in the community.  
    Performance Indicator: 170 persons with HIV/AIDS annually.  
    Start Date: 1/1/2003 - Completion Date: 1/31/2003  
  
    28 03T 201(e)  
    [LMC]  
    SubPriv  
  
    $145,000  
  
    $145,000  
  
    243 03  
  
    7870P Betts  
  
    Plymouth Housing Group  
  
    Plymouth Housing Group (2209 1st Avenue, 98121)  
    Provides 35 units of permanent housing for persons disabled by AIDS. Housing  
    opportunities are targeted primarily to homeless, special needs populations  
    whose housing placement and subsequent stability are dependent on really  
    available support services.  
    Performance Indicator: 40 persons with HIV/AIDS annually.  
    Start Date: 1/1/2003 - Completion Date: 1/31/2003  
  
    28 03T 201(e)  
    [LMC]  
    SubPriv  
  
    $113,316  
  
    $113,316  
  
    243 04  
  
    7870P Betts  
  
    Multifaith Works  
  
    Multifaith AIDS Project (1801 12th Avenue, Suite A., 98122)  
    Agency will assist persons disabled with AIDS achieve and maintain stable, self-  
    sufficient living, and to maintain active participation in the community's AIDS  
    health and case management systems.  
    Performance Indicator: 40 persons with HIV/AIDS annually.  
    Start Date: 1/1/2003 - Completion Date: 12/31/2004  
  
    28 03T 201(e)  
    [LMC]  
    SubPriv  
  
    $177,340  
  
    $177,340  
  
    243 05  
  
    7870P Betts  
  
    Rosehedge Housing and Health Care  
  
    Housing and Assisted Living Services (12718 15th Ave N.E., 98125)  
    Agency will assist persons disabled with AIDS secure, structured residential  
    environment to become medically stable. For most participants, the agency  
    prevents homelessness.  
    Performance Indicator: 32 persons with HIV/AIDS annually.  
    Start Date: 1/1/2003 - Completion Date: 12/31/2004  
  
    28 03T 201(e)  
    [LMC]  
    SubPriv  
  
    $169,050  
  
    $169,050  
  
    243 06  
  
    7870P Betts  
  
    Housing Authority of Snohomish County  
  
    HOPWA Rental Assistance Program (12525 4th Ave W., Suite 200, Everett WA 98204)  
    The agency will administer will help persons in Snohomish County who are  
    diagnosed with HIV/AIDS to maintain their current housing while efforts are made  
    to secure sustainable and appropriate permanent housing.  
    Performance Indicator: 18 persons with HIV/AIDS.  
    Start Date: 1/1/2003 - Completion Date: 12/31/2003  
  
    28 03T 201(e)  
    [LMC]  
    SubPriv  
  
    $96,300  
  
    $96,300  
  
    243 07  
  
    7870P Betts  
  
    Seattle Office of Housing  
  
    Judkins Apartments Rehabilitation (NA)  
    HOPWA grant will support prospective Judkins Apartments rehab project. Funding  
    support of the project will secure the long-term set-aside of 1 of the units  
    exclusively for AIDS-disabled tenants.  
    Start Date: 1/1/2004 - Completion Date: 12/31/2004  
  
    28 14B 202  
    [LMC]  
    LocGov  
  
    $175,000  
  
    $175,000  
  
    243 08  
  
    7870P Betts  
  
    Selkirk Miller Hayashi Architects  
  
    Consultant Services (NA)  
    Consultant will assess and evaluate the urgent and ongoing capital  
    maintenance/repair/rehab needs of the current stock of HOPWA-supported  
    residential structures. Needs and defects will be identified, and  
    recommendations will be made as to remedial or corrective actions required to  
    maintain the structures as safe, sound, and HOPWA/local code compliant.  
    Start Date: 3/1/2003 - Completion Date: 5/31/2003  
  
    28 20 205 SubPriv  
  
    $10,000  
  
    $10,000  
  
    243 09  
  
    7870P Betts  
  
    Catholic Community Services/ NW  
  
    Placement and Stabilizing Services (1918 Everett Ave, 98201)  
    Provides placement and stabilizing services to persons disabled by AIDS/HIV in  
    appropriate, affordable permanent housing. Specific services offered to clients  
    include scattered site Client Based Rent/Assistance Subsidies, case management,  
    housing search assistance and client advocacy. [Funds are from HOPWA 2002  
    grant.]  
    Performance Indicator: 50 persons with HIV/AIDS annually.  
    Start Date: 1/1/2003 - Completion Date: 12/31/2003  
  
    28 03T 201(e)  
    [LMC]  
    SubPriv  
  
    $130,136  
  
    $130,136  
  
    2435  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            243: Tenant Stabilization Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    1,101,037  
  
    $0  
  
    $715,078  
  
    $0  
  
    $1,697,601  
  
    $0  
  
    $2,412,679  
  
    2547  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            24: Community Services Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    6,353,217  
  
    $0  
  
    $5,255,845  
  
    $494,916  
  
    $1,697,601  
  
    $350,000  
  
    $7,798,362  
  
    29  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            2: Human Services Department Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    9,771,335  
  
    $165,000  
  
    $8,389,806  
  
    $525,789  
  
    $1,697,601  
  
    $350,000  
  
    $10,963,196  
  
    4  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    4: Office of Economic Development  
  
    99  
  
    41  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    41: Workforce Development  
  
    99  
  
    4109  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    411: Support for Low-Income Workers  
  
    99  
  
    411  
  
    4040C Bethea  
  
    Seattle Jobs Initiative  
    City of Seattle OED  
  
    Jobs Initiative Program (Citywide)  
    Seattle Jobs Initiative will provide services to low-income individuals so they  
    may secure and retain family-wage jobs. SJI will also work withbusinesses,  
    community organizations, and residents so that employers meet their needs for  
    qualified workers. Provide services to businesses, community organizations, and  
    residents so that employers meet their need for qualified workers and low-income  
    individuals secure and retain family wage jobs. The Office of Economic  
    Development (OED) will fund and support the successful creation of an  
    independent, non-profit Seattle Jobs Initiative to provide services and promote  
    best practices to support low-income job seekers to successfully complete  
    training programs, secure employment, and achieve long-term retention and wage  
    progression. OED will also provide technical, outreach, and planning support for  
    other workforce development programs helping low-income individuals find and  
    retain jobs, including the Workforce Development Council, Construction Industry  
    Workforce Advisory Committee, and OED's Employment Linkage Program.  
    Performance indicator: 500 persons. 1 organization.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    05H 201(e) LMJ  
    18B 203(b)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $497,500  
  
    $497,500  
  
    411  
  
    4041C Bethea  
  
    City of Seattle OED  
  
    Workforce Development Program (Citywide)  
    OED will provide technical, outreach, and planning support for other workforce  
    development programs helping low-income individuals find and retain jobs,  
    including the Workforce Development Council, Construction Industry Workforce  
    Advisory Committee, and OED's Employment Linkage Program.  
    Performance indicator: NA  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    20 205  
    LocGov  
     18B 203(b)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    CD $549,000  
  
    $159,091  
  
    $159,091  
  
    4115  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            411: Seattle Jobs Initiative Operations Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    549,000  
  
    $0  
  
    $656,591  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $656,591  
  
    419  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            41: Workforce Development Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    549,000  
  
    $0  
  
    $656,591  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $656,591  
  
    42  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    42: Neighborhood and Community Development  
  
    99  
  
    4209  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    421: Community Development  
  
    99  
  
    421  
  
    4135C Bethea  
  
    City of Seattle OED  
  
    Rainier Valley Community Development Fund (L/M)  
    Lessen the impact of construction of light rail on Rainier Valley business and  
    property owners and provide opportunity for the community to invest in  
    affordable housing, retail and commercial development, small business  
    development and facilities for community and cultural activities, especially in  
    association with transportation improvements.  
    Performance indicator: 50 businesses  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    18A 203(b) LMA  
  
    $1,912,500 $2,500,000  
  
    $1,912,500  
  
    421  
  
    4131C Bethea  
  
    City of Seattle OED  
  
    Community Development Corporation Equity Fund (Citywide)  
    The Community Development Corporation Equity Fund is a fund set up to provide  
    forgivable loans to CDCs for retail, commercial, and/or mixed-use development  
    projects. OED staff will provide assistance in identifying loan opportunities  
    and evaluating loan proposals.  
    Performance indicator: 1 business.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    18A 203(b)  
    LMJ  
    LocGov CBDO  
  
    CD $330,000  
  
    $330,604  
  
    $330,604  
  
    421  
  
    Bethea  
  
    City of Seattle OED  
  
    Loan Income (Citywide)  
    Loan fees from prior float loan and Section 108 loans will be used to provide  
    public notice and public input to proposals for economic development activities  
    funded by CDBG float loans or Section 108 loans. Such loan fees will also be  
    provided to the National Development Council in connection with its assistance  
    in originating development projects generating loan fees.  Any   remaining  
    miscellaneous income from prior loan fees will be deposited into the Community  
    Dvelopment Equity Fund to support equity necessary for retail, commercial and/or  
    mixed use development projects of the CDCs.  
  
    421  
  
    4113CG Bethea  
  
    Iindividual Community Development Corporations  
  
    Community Development Technical & Project Assistance - Projects (Citywide)  
    The Office of Economic Development (OED) will work with fund Impact Capital to  
    provide specific technical assistance in support of economic and community  
    development projects sponsored by community development corporations. In  
    addition, OED will fund six community development corporations to work on  
    specific housing, commercial, and community development projects. Certain  
    Community Development Corporations will be funded to assess the feasibility to  
    proposed economic development projects.  
    [Planning (20 205) $193,269; Program Delivery (18B 203(b) $138,656.] (See also  
    Planning: 20.)  
    Performance indicator: 6 organizations.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    18B 203(b)  
    LMA  
    CBDO  
  
    CD $758,000 $838,000  
  
    $468,075  
  
    $138,656  
  
    $138,656  
  
    421  
  
    4113CG Bethea  
  
    Impact Capital, et. al.  
  
    Community Development Technical & Project Assistance - Planning (Citywide)  
    The City will fund Impact Capital to provide specific technical assistance in  
    support of economic and community development projects sponsored by community  
    development corporations. Additionally, this program will fund an annual update  
    of the data profile for each of the Neighborhood Revitalization Strategies. (See  
    also Program Delivery:18B.)  
    Performance indicator: 6 organizations.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    20 205  
  
    CD $80,000  
  
    $193,269  
  
    $193,269  
  
    4218  
  
            421: Community Development  
  
     Subtotal99  
  
    1,168,000  
  
    $468,075  
  
    $2,575,029  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $2,575,029  
  
    4219  
  
    422: Community Development Loans  
  
    99  
  
    422  
  
    4012C Bethea  
  
    National Development Council  
  
    National Development Council Float Loan Origination (N/A)  
    Handle marketing and outreach for the CDBG Float Loan Program, provide technical  
    assistance to prospective borrowers.  
    Performance indicator: 3 businesses  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    18A 203(b)  
    LMJ  
  
    CD 25,000  
  
    $25,000  
  
    $25,000  
  
    4228  
  
            422: Community Development Loans  
  
     Subtotal99  
  
    25,000  
  
    $0  
  
    $25,000  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $25,000  
  
    4229  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    423: Neighborhood Business District Support  
  
    99  
  
    423  
  
    4046C Bethea  
  
    SEED, CISC, CADA, & UCC  
    City of Seattle  
  
    Neighborhood Business District Support (various L/M Areas)  
    This program assists neighborhood business districts in low-income  
    neighborhoods, make including a facade improvements. program.  
    Performance indicator: 12 40 businesses.  
  
    14E 202  
    LMA  
  
    CD $170,380  
  
    $0  
  
    $215,380  
  
    $215,380  
  
    423  
  
    4030C Bethea  
  
    Neighborhood Farmers Market Alliance  
  
    Business Tech Assistance - Farmers Markets (Citywide)  
    The Neighborhood Farmers Market Alliance promotes and supports the expansion of  
    farmers markers in predominantly low-income areas.  
    Performance indicator: 2 businesses.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    18B 203  
    LMA  
  
    CD 50,000  
  
    $14,250  
  
    $50,000  
  
    $50,000  
  
    423  
  
    4030C Bethea  
  
    OED Business Assistance Center and City of Seattle OED  
  
    Business Tech Assistance (Citywide)  
    Provide technical assistance to existing and startup businesses served by the  
    Community Capital Development and other lenders and to other initiatives,  
    including microenterprise activities and farmers markets. The goal is to develop  
    and sustain small businesses in Seattle within low-income communities and create  
    job opportunities for low and moderate-income persons. Use $192,359 in CDBG in  
    Business Technical Assistance in order to facilitate the Community Development  
    Fund (CDF) "swap." The CDF is a loan fund intended to lessen the impact of light  
    rail on Rainier Valley businesses and property owners.  
    Performance indicator: 96 36 businesses.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    18B 203(b)  
    LMJ  
    CBDO  
  
    CD 150,000  
  
    $0  
  
    0 $150,000  
  
    $0  
  
    423  
  
    4030C Bethea  
  
    Seattle Business Assistance Center  
  
    Business Tech Assistance - Microenterprises (Citywide)  
    Seattle Business Assistance Center of Community Capital Development assists  
    small businesses evaluate business opportunities, development business plans,  
    and secure business financing.  
    Performance indicator: 300 businesses.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    18C 201(o)  
    LMC  
  
    CD 100,000  
  
    $17,500  
  
    $100,000  
  
    $100,000  
  
    4235  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            423: Neighborhood Business District Support Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    470,380  
  
    $31,750  
  
    $365,380  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $365,380  
  
    429  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            42: Neighborhood and Community Development  Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    1,663,380  
  
    $499,825  
  
    $2,965,409  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $2,965,409  
  
    45  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            4: Office of Economic Development Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    2,212,380  
  
    $499,825  
  
    $3,622,000  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $3,622,000  
  
    46  
  
    zz  
  
    Office of Economic Development Float Loans  
  
    289  
  
    461  
  
    DNDA  
  
    Cooper School (4408 Delridge Way SW)  
    Funds will be loaned to DNDA to pay for acquisition and predevelopment costs.  
    Cooper School will be a mixed-use development that will include 37 units of  
    artist live/work studios and up to 22,595 sq ft of retail space. It is expected  
    that DNDA will repay principal and 2% interest at the end of a 30 month term.  
    The loan will be fully guaranteed by an irrevocable Letter of Credit from a  
    private bank.  
  
    29 12 204(a) LMHSP  
  
    $4,000,000  
  
    462  
  
    Southeast Effective Development  
  
    Rainier Court (S Charlestown St and Rainier Avenue S)  
    Funds will be loaned to SEED to acquire parcels and pay for certain  
    predevelopment costs related to the Rainier Court project. Rainier Court is a  
    mixed-use development to be developed in at least three phases that overall will  
    provide 543 units of housing and up to 23,000 sq ft of retail space. It is  
    expected that SEED will repay principal and 2% interest at the end of a 30 month  
    term. The loan will be fully guaranteed by an irrevocable Letter of Credit from  
    a private bank.  
  
    29 01 204(a)  
    LMHSP  
  
    $2,575,000  
  
    463  
  
    YouthCare  
  
    Youth Care Orion Center (975 John St)  
    This float loan was made with YouthCare in 2002 (see the 2002 Action Plan for  
    description). Principal and interest are due to be repaid in 2005.  
  
    29 03C 201(c)  
    LMC  
  
    $3,100,000  
  
    464  
  
    Painters and Allied Trades Apprentice-ship and Training Trust Fund  
  
    Painters Union Training Center  
    (Olson Pl SW & Meyers Way S.)  
    This float loan was made with the Painters Union in 2002 (see the 2002 Action  
    Plan for description). The Painters Union makes monthly payments on interest. In  
    2003 these payments will provide $42,805 in program income. The loan will be  
    fully repaid in 2004.  
  
    29 01 201(a)  
    LMC  
  
    $2,100,000  
  
    47  
  
    zz  
  
    Office of Economic Development Section 108 Loans  
  
    299  
  
    471  
  
    Cadillac Hotel (325 2nd Avenue)  
    Approximately $2,000,000 $5,000,000 will be loaned to Historic Seattle from the  
    City's $15,500,000 Section 108 loan pool. Funds will be used to pay for  
    acquisition, construction, and certain predevelopment costs. The Cadillac Hotel,  
    upon completion, will include offices for the National Park Service, the site of  
    the Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park as well as other offices.  
  
    30  
  
    $2,000,000  
  
    472  
  
    Compass Center (77 Washington Street, 210 Alaska Way)  
    Approximately $1,300,000 $750,000 will be loaned to the Compass Center from the  
    City's $15,500,000 Section 108 loan pool. Funds will be used to pay for  
    construction and certain predevelopment costs. The Compass Center, upon  
    completion, will be a two-parcel site with 103 beds for homeless individuals,  
    related administrative space, and a commercial kitchen and laundry facility, all  
    in support of the housing.  
  
    30  
  
    $1,300,000  
  
    473  
  
    Hong Kong Building (507 Maynard Avenue)  
    Approximately $1,000,000 will be loaned to an entity controlled by James and  
    Christopher Koh from the City's $15,500,000 Section 108 loan pool. Funds will be  
    used to pay for acquisition and certain predevelopment costs. The Hong Kong  
    Building, upon completion, will include 49 units of housing and up to 6,070  
    square feet of retail space.  
  
    30  
  
    $1,000,000  
  
    5  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    5: Department of Neighborhoods  
  
    99  
  
    51  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    51: Community Building Division  
  
    99  
  
  
    5119  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    512: Business District Support  
  
    99  
  
    512  
  
    4110C John Eskelin  
  
    City of Seattle DON  
  
    Neighborhood Plan Community Project  
    The Neighborhood Plan Implementation Program facilitates, monitors and  
    coordinates the City's efforts to implement neighborhood plans, so that high  
    priority requests in the plans are implemented in areas with the most  
    anticipated growth over the next 20 years. CDBG funds support business district  
    improvement efforts in South Park and South Delridge Triangle. The City will  
    partner with local businesses to implement Facade improvements, and install  
    street furniture, banners, and landscaping.  
    Performance indicator: 1 organization.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    18B 203(b)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    CD $75,460  
  
    $200,000  
  
    $200,000  
  
    5125  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            512: Business District Support Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    75,460  
  
    $0  
  
     $200,000  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $200,000  
  
    5129  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            51: Community Building Division Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    75,460  
  
    $0  
  
    $200,000  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $200,000  
  
    52  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    52: Neighborhood Preservation & Development  
  
    99  
  
    5209  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    521: Historic Preservation  
  
    99  
  
    521  
  
    3080C Gordon  
  
    City of Seattle DON  
  
    Historic Preservation Staffing (Citywide)  
    Conduct Section 106 Review, pursuant to 36 CFR 800 of the National Historic  
    Preservation Act, for CDBG-supported programs and projects, required for  
    compliance with CDBG environmental review requirements. Programmatic Reviews for  
    270 sites, Determinations of Eligibility for 75 projects.  
    Performance indicator: 270 public facilities.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    20 205  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    CD $37,367  
  
    $43,118  
  
    $43,118  
  
    5215  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            521: Historic Preservation Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    37,367  
  
    $0  
  
    $43,118  
  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $43,118  
  
    5219  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            52: Neighborhood Preservation & Development  Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    37,367  
  
    $0  
  
    $43,118  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $43,118  
  
    59  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            5: Department of Neighborhoods Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    112,827  
  
    $0  
  
    $243,118  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $243,118  
  
    6  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    6: Department of Parks & Recreation  
  
    99  
  
    61  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    61: Parks Upgrades  
  
    99  
  
    6109  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    611: Parks Upgrades  
  
    99  
  
    611  
  
    3021C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    Squire Park Acquisition ()  
    The northeast portion of a parcel located at the intersection of 14th Avenue &  
    Remington Court, adjacent to the King County Youth Detention Center, will be  
    acquired for use as a neighborhood park in a predominantly low-moderate income  
    neighborhood.  
    Performance indicator: 1 public facility.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    01 201(a) LMA LocGov  
  
    0  
  
    0 $128,000  
  
    0 $272,000  
  
    $0  
  
    611  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    Parks Upgrades (Citywide)  
    Perform general capital renovation employing community-based labor to make  
    improvements to identified park sites. Planned are projects such as: barrier-  
    free access (ADA), erosion control, landscape renovation, irrigation upgrades,  
    and play area improvements. Various low-income census tracts to be determined  
    later.  
    Performance indicator: 14 12 public facilities.  
    Start date: 1/1/2003 - Completion date: 12/31/2003.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    CD $507,961  
  
    0 $507,961  
  
    $0  
  
    611 01  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    Brighton PF (6000 39th Ave S, 98136)  
    New benches and tables, ADA surface at play area.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $13,700  
  
    $13,700  
  
    611 02  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    Colman PG (1740 23rd Ave S, 98144)  
    New sidewalk and trail for playground.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $60,500  
  
    $60,500  
  
    611 03  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    Rainier PF (3700 S Alaska St, 98126)  
    Uprade bleachers and install ADA path.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $30,500  
  
    $30,500  
  
    611 04  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    Delridge PF (4458 Delridge Way SW, 98106)  
    New tables, benches, and ADA paths.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $29,000  
  
    $29,000  
  
    611 05  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    Georgetown PF (750 S Homer St, 98108)  
    Install new perimeter fence.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $23,650  
  
    $23,650  
  
    611 06  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    Roxhill Park (2850 SW Roxbury St, 98126)  
    Install new fencing.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $9,350  
  
    $9,350  
  
    611 07  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    High Point PF (6920 34th Ave SW, 98126)  
    New asphalt paths, benches, and bleacher pads.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $27,500  
  
    $27,500  
  
    611 08  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    Spruce St Park (160 21st Ave, 98122)  
    New play equipment, ADA access at play area, and landscaping.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $79,900  
  
    $79,900  
  
    611 09  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    Boren-Pike-Pine (1050 Pike St. 98101)  
    Landscape installation.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $25,000  
  
    $25,000  
  
    611 10  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    Kobe Terrace (221 6th Ave S, 98104)  
    New entrance and landscape installation.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $57,460  
  
    $57,460  
  
    611 11  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    University PG (4955 9th Ave NE, 98105)  
    Install new landscape.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $22,000  
  
    $22,000  
  
    611 12  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    Pinehurst PG (12029 14th Ave NE, 98125)  
    New benches, tables, site entrance, asphalt paving, bike rack, and retaining  
    wall.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $56,410  
  
    $56,410  
  
    611 13  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    Licton Springs Park (9536 Ashworth Ave N, 98103)  
    New pathways and ADA bridge.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $64,990  
  
    $64,990  
  
    611 14  
  
    3020C Chin  
  
    City of Seattle Parks & Rec  
  
    Medgar Evers Pool (500 23rd Ave, 98122)  
    Installation of fencing and landscaping.  
  
    03F 201(c)  
    LMA  
    LocGov  
  
    $8,000  
  
    $8,000  
  
    6115  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            611: Parks Upgrades Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    507,961  
  
    $0  
  
    $507,960  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $507,960  
  
    6119  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            61: Parks Upgrades Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    507,961  
  
    $0  
  
    $507,960  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $507,960  
  
    69  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            6: Dept. of Parks & Recreation Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    507,961  
  
    $0  
  
    $507,960  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $507,960  
  
    7  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    Total: All Lines of Business  
  
    99  
  
    20,582,940  
  
    $829,825  
  
    $16,416,883  
  
    $525,789  
  
    $1,697,601  
  
    $4,956,477  
  
    $23,596,750  
  
    91  
  
    8975  
  
    zzz***  
  
    H:\CDBG Unit\2003 Work\__2003 Action Plan Revised LOB2.wpd      Printed 2003-07-30  
  
    70  
  
    99 5315  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            531: Research and Prevention Program  
  
     Subtotal99  
  
    20,582,940  
  
    $829,825  
  
    $16,416,883  
  
    $525,789  
  
    $1,697,601  
  
    $4,956,477  
  
    $24,426,575  
  
    99 5309  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    531: Research and Prevention Program  
  
    99  
  
    99 5319  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            53: Research and Prevention Program Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    20,582,940  
  
    $829,825  
  
    $16,416,883  
  
    $525,789  
  
    $1,697,601  
  
    $4,956,477  
  
    $24,426,575  
  
    99  
  
    zz  
  
    EAC #22 UNPROGRAMMED FUNDS  
  
    99  
  
    99 53  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    53: Research and Prevention Program  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    2003 ACTION PLAN: BY HUD ACTIVITY TYPE  
  
    0  
  
    Page 1 of 27  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT  
  
    007  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    EAC #1 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY  
  
    008  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            CDBG EAC #1  
  
     Subtotal018  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $167,331,927  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    EAC #3 PUBLIC FACILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS  
    (Except EAC #03T: Operating Costs)  
  
    029  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            CDBG EAC #3 (Except 03T)  
  
     Subtotal03S8  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    EAC #3T OPERATING COSTS OF HOMELESS PROGRAMS AND AIDS PATIENTS PROGRAMS  
  
    03S9  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            CDBG EAC #3T  
  
     Subtotal03T8  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    EAC #5 PUBLIC SERVICES  
  
    049  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            CDBG EAC #5  
  
     Subtotal05Z  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    EAC #14 REHABILITATION  
  
    139  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            CDBG EAC #14  
  
     Subtotal14Z8  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    EAC #18 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT  
  
    189  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            CDBG EAC #18  
  
     Subtotal18Z  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    EAC #20 PLANNING  
  
    199  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            CDBG EAC #20  
  
     Subtotal208  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    EAC #21 ADMINISTRATION  
  
    209  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            CDBG EAC #21  
  
     Subtotal21Z8  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            CDBG Entitlement (with combined sources)  
  
     Subtotal228  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $167,331,927  
  
    z  
  
    8701  
  
    zz  
  
    Estimated Program Income  
  
    239  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            Estimated Program Income  
  
     Subtotal248  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $167,331,927  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    Emergency Shelter Grant Projects not combined with CDBG  
  
    259  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            ESG  
  
     Subtotal268  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $334,663,854  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    HOME  
  
    269  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            HOME  
  
     Subtotal278  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $501,995,781  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    HOPWA Projects not combined with CDBG  
  
    279  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
            HOPWA  
  
     Subtotal288  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $501,995,781  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    HUD TITLE I ENTITLEMENT FUNDING  
  
    61  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    CDBG Entitlement, and combined projects  
  
    63  
  
    14,852,711  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    Emergency Shelter Program  
  
    64  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    HOME  
  
    65  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    HOPWA  
  
    66  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    Total of Title 1 Grants  
  
    67  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    Estimated CDBG & HOME Program Income  
  
    68  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    Total: Title 1 Programs (Including Program Income)  
  
    69  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    zz  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    zz  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    zz  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    0000  
  
    zz  
  
    Estimated Program Income  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    1000  
  
    zz  
  
            2002 ACTION PLAN: BY SERVICE AREA  
            City of Seattle: CDBG, ESG, HOME, HOPWA, & HSP  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    1009  
  
    zz  
  
    AGING SERVICES AREA  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    1095  
  
    zz  
  
    ELDERLY MEALS  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    1099  
  
    zz  
  
    Elderly Meals Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    14,852,711  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    1158  
  
    zz  
  
    INFORMATION & REFERRAL  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    1159  
  
    zz  
  
    Information and Referral Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    1220  
  
    zz  
  
    SENIOR CENTERS  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    1221  
  
    zz  
  
    Senior Centers Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    1299  
  
    zz  
  
    OTHER AGING PROGRAMS  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    13399  
  
    zz  
  
    Other Aging Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    13438  
  
    zz  
  
    DISABILITY ACCESS  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    1999  
  
    zz  
  
    Disability Access Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2000  
  
    zz  
  
    SUBTOTAL - AGING SERVICES  
  
    99  
  
    14,852,711  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2009  
  
    zz  
  
    CHILDREN, YOUTH AND FAMILY SERVICE AREA  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2085  
  
    zz  
  
    HOMELESS YOUTH SERVICES  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2086  
  
    zz  
  
    Homeless Youth Services Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2168  
  
    zz  
  
    YOUTH CASE MANAGEMENT/ COUNSELING  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2169  
  
    zz  
  
    Youth Case Management Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2178  
  
    zz  
  
    PARENT EDUCATION  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2179  
  
    zz  
  
    Parent Education Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2278  
  
    zz  
  
    YOUTH EMPL, EDUC, & RECREATION  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2279  
  
    zz  
  
    Youth Empl, Educ, & Recreation Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2318  
  
    zz  
  
    FAMILY SUPPORT  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2319  
  
    zz  
  
    Family Support Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2408  
  
    zz  
  
    CHILDREN'S SERVICES  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2409  
  
    zz  
  
    Children's Services Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2428  
  
    zz  
  
    YOUTH & FAMILY ADVOCACY  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2429  
  
    zz  
  
    Youth & Family Advocacy Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    2468  
  
    zz  
  
    FAMILY VICTIM ASSISTANCE  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    2999  
  
    zz  
  
    Family Victim Assistance Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    3000  
  
    zz  
  
    SUBTOTAL - CHILDREN, YOUTH AND FAMILY SERVICES  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    3002  
  
    zz  
  
    COMMUNITY SYSTEMS SUPPORT  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    3009  
  
    zz  
  
    COMMUNITY FACILITIES  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    3018  
  
    zz  
  
    PLANNING & DESIGN  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    3019  
  
    zz  
  
    Planning & Design Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    3108  
  
    zz  
  
    CONSTRUCTION & REHAB - CITY PROJECTS  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    3117  
  
    zz  
  
    Construction & Rehab Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    3280  
  
    zz  
  
    COMMUNITY FACILITIES RFP  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    3300  
  
    zz  
  
    Community Facility RFP Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    3390  
  
    zz  
  
    OTHER COMMUNITY FACILITIES  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    3439  
  
    zz  
  
    Other Community Facilities Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    z  
  
    3478  
  
    zz  
  
    COALITION ADVOCACY  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    3999  
  
    zz  
  
    Coalition Advocacy Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    4000  
  
    zz  
  
    SUBTOTAL - COMMUNITY SYSTEMS SUPPORT  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    4009  
  
    zz  
  
    ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SERVICE AREA  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    4018  
  
    zz  
  
    FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    4029  
  
    zz  
  
    Financial Assistance Programs Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    4038  
  
    zz  
  
    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    4039  
  
    zz  
  
    Technical Assistance Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    4108  
  
    zz  
  
    COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    4109  
  
    zz  
  
    Community Development Support Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    4178  
  
    zz  
  
    CBO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    4999  
  
    zz  
  
    CBO Economic Development Support Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    5000  
  
    zz  
  
    SUBTOTAL - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SERVICE AREA  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    5009  
  
    zz  
  
    EMERGENCY FOOD SERVICES  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    5168  
  
    zz  
  
    FOOD BANKS  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    5169  
  
    zz  
  
    Food Banks Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    5228  
  
    zz  
  
    MEAL PROGRAMS  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    5229  
  
    zz  
  
    Meal Programs Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    5238  
  
    zz  
  
    HOME DELIVERED GROCERIES  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    5239  
  
    zz  
  
    Home Delivery Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    5268  
  
    zz  
  
    FOOD DISTRIBUTION  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    5269  
  
    zz  
  
    Food Distribution Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    5291  
  
    zz  
  
    FOOD ADVOCACY & SYSTEMS SUPPORT  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    5999  
  
    zz  
  
    Food Advocacy & Support Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    6000  
  
    zz  
  
    SUBTOTAL - EMERGENCY FOOD SERVICES  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    6001  
  
    zz  
  
    HEALTH SERVICES AREA  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    6998  
  
    zz  
  
    HEALTH SERVICES  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    6999  
  
    zz  
  
    Subtotal - Health Services Allocation  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    7000  
  
    zz  
  
    SUBTOTAL - HEALTH SERVICES ALLOCATION  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    7008  
  
    zz  
  
    HOUSING CAPITAL AND HOUSING SERVICES  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    7009  
  
    zz  
  
    HOUSING CAPITAL  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    7158  
  
    zz  
  
    HOUSING CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT/REPAIR  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    7159  
  
    zz  
  
    Housing Development/Repair Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    7180  
  
    zz  
  
    HOUSING LOAN PROGRAMS  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    7181  
  
    zz  
  
    Housing Loan Programs Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    7190  
  
    zz  
  
    Housing Capital Development Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    z  
  
    7191  
  
    zz  
  
    HOUSING SERVICES  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    7368  
  
    zz  
  
    HOUSING STABILIZATION  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    7369  
  
    zz  
  
    Housing Stabilization Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    7388  
  
    zz  
  
    EVICTION PREVENTION  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    7389  
  
    zz  
  
    Eviction Prevention Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    7688  
  
    zz  
  
    HOMELESS ASSISTANCE  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    7689  
  
    zz  
  
    Homeless Assistance Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    7768  
  
    zz  
  
    TRANSITIONAL HOUSING  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    7769  
  
    zz  
  
    Transitional Housing Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    7848  
  
    zz  
  
    COMMUNITY SUPPORT & RESOURCES  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    7849  
  
    zz  
  
    Community Support & Resources Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    7997  
  
    zz  
  
    HOPWA  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    7999  
  
    zz  
  
    HOPWA Subtotal  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    8000  
  
    zz  
  
    SUBTOTAL - HOUSING  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    8039  
  
    zz  
  
    PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION AND PLANNING  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    8700  
  
    zz  
  
    SUBTOTAL - PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION AND PLANNING  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    8960  
  
    zz  
  
    HOUSING PROGRAM INCOME  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    8961  
  
    zz  
  
    SUMMARY BY SERVICE AREA  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    8962  
  
    zz  
  
    Aging Services  
  
    99  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    z  
  
    8963  
  
    zz  
  
    Children, Youth, & Family Services  
  
    99  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    z  
  
    8964  
  
    zz  
  
    Community Systems Support  
  
    99  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    z  
  
     8965  
  
    zz  
  
    Economic Development  
  
    99  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    z  
  
    8966  
  
    zz  
  
    Emergency Food Services  
  
    99  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    z  
  
    8967  
  
    zz  
  
    Health Services  
  
    99  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    ??  
  
    z  
  
    8968  
  
    zz  
  
    Housing (not including housing program income)  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    8969  
  
    zz  
  
    Program Administration & Planning  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    8970  
  
    zz  
  
    Service Area Total  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    8971  
  
    zz  
  
    Estimated Program Income  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
  
  
    City of Seattle LegislationCity of Seattle Legislative Information Service  
  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9000  
  
    zz  
  
    Total  
  
    99  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9050  
  
    zz  
  
    FLOAT LOANS  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    9055  
  
    zz  
  
    TOTAL FLOAT LOANS  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    z  
  
    98955  
  
    zz  
  
    Non-HUD HSP FUNDING: BY SERVICE AREA  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    HSP/GF only  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    0  
  
             2002 ACTION PLAN: BY AGENCY  
            City of Seattle: CDBG, ESG, HOME, HOPWA, & HSP  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    CDBG EAC #22 SUBTOTAL  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $1,505,987,343  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    EAC #13 DIRECT OWNERSHIP ASSISTANCE  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    CDBG EAC #13 SUBTOTAL  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    EAC #19 MISCELLANEOUS  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    CDBG EAC #19 SUBTOTAL  
  
    99  
  
    0  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    99  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    zz  
  
    HSP TOTAL FUNDING  
  
    99007  
  
    44,558,133  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $0  
  
    $2,844,642,759  
  
    z  
  
    9999  
  
    99008  
  
    [COMMENT1]Bill Rumpf, 6/5/2003.  
    [COMMENT2]Bill Rumpf, 6/5/2003.  
    [COMMENT3]GE  
    [COMMENT4]Bill Rumpf, 6/5/2003.  
    [COMMENT5]Bill Rumpf, 6/5/2003.  
    [COMMENT6]Bill Rumpf, 6/5/2003.  
    [COMMENT7]Bill Rumpf, 6/5/2003.  
    [COMMENT8]GE  
    [COMMENT9]Bill Rumpf, 6/5/2003.  
    [COMMENT10]Bill Rumpf, 6/5/2003.  
    [COMMENT11]Michael Look, 6/5/2003  
    [COMMENT12]Michael Look, 6/5/2003  
    [COMMENT13]Michael Look, 6/5/2003  
    [COMMENT14]Michael Look, 6/5/2003  
    [COMMENT15]Michael Look, 6/5/2003  
    [COMMENT16]Michael Look, 6/5/2003  
    [COMMENT17]Michael Look, 6/5/2003  
    [COMMENT18]Michael Look, 6/5/2003  
    [COMMENT19]Michael Look, 6/5/2003  
