* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114697**   
**Ordinance Number: 121295**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; authorizing execution of the Amendment No. 3 to the Exchange and Transfer Agreement, the Talbot Hill Substation Interconnection Agreement Amendment and the Cedar Falls Line - Lake Youngs Substation Transfers Payment Agreement, all with Puget Sound Energy, Inc. and related to transmission service over and from the Cedar Falls Transmission Line.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 29, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 10, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 9, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 15, 2003   
**Committee:** Water and Health   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER   
  
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, PUGET-SOUND-POWER-LIGHT, CONTRACTS, CEDAR-FALLS, POWER-TRANSMISSION-FACILITIES, ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION-LINES  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114697.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114697  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; authorizing  
    execution of the Amendment No. 3 to the Exchange and Transfer  
    Agreement, the Talbot Hill Substation Interconnection Agreement  
    Amendment and the Cedar Falls Line - Lake Youngs Substation Transfers  
    Payment Agreement, all with Puget Sound Energy, Inc. and related to  
    transmission service over and from the Cedar Falls Transmission Line.  
  
    WHEREAS, the City of Seattle ("City") owns a 115-kV transmission line  
    that extends from the West Valley Highway in Renton to a point near  
    the City's Cedar Falls generating plant where the line interconnects  
    with a 115-kV transmission line owned by Puget Sound Energy, Inc.  
    ("Puget") (the "Cedar Falls Line"); and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City and Puget are parties to the Exchange and Transfer  
    Agreement dated May 23, 1977, as amended in 1980 and 1997 (the  
    "Transfer Agreement"), related to transfer service provided by Puget  
    to the City for power and energy from the City's Cedar Falls  
    generating plant and provided by the City to Puget over the Cedar  
    Falls Line; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City and Puget are parties to the Interconnection  
    Agreement dated May 23, 1977 (the "Interconnection Agreement"),  
    related to an interconnection between the parties' facilities at  
    Puget's Talbot Hill Substation, which is the primary delivery point  
    for power and energy from the Cedar Falls generating plant that Puget  
    transfers to the City pursuant to the Transfer Agreement; and  
  
    WHEREAS, in response to the request of Seattle Public Utilities that  
    Puget provide primary voltage electric service to a future water  
    treatment facility, Puget is constructing and will own a substation  
    within the City's Lake Youngs Reservation (the "Lake Youngs  
    Substation"); and  
  
    WHEREAS, in connection with Puget's provision of electric service  
    through the Lake Youngs Substation and the mutual desire for  
    increased certainty regarding the transfer of power and energy, the  
    City desires to amend the Interconnection Agreement to extend its  
    term and to amend the Transfer Agreement (i) to allow the City to  
    connect new generation resources to the Cedar Falls Line up to 25 MW,  
    including the Cedar Falls generating plant, (ii) to provide for the  
    survival of certain rights to transfer energy through 2038, in the  
    event that a party exercises its right to terminate prior to that  
    date and (iii) commencing January 1, 2032, to extend notice of  
    termination to seven years; and  
  
    WHEREAS, under the Transfer Agreement and the proposed amendment to  
    the Transfer Agreement, the City and Puget have provided and will  
    continue to provide mutually beneficial, no-cost services for the  
    transfer of power and energy between their facilities; and  
  
    WHEREAS, to preserve these no-cost transmission services, the City  
    desires to execute a new payment agreement to provide for equivalent  
    payments for services under the proposed amendment to the Transfer  
    Agreement, in the event that a regulatory authority requires either  
    party to impose transmission charges on the other party; NOW,  
    THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Superintendent of the City Light Department, or his  
    designee, is hereby authorized to enter into (i) an amendment to the  
    Transfer Agreement, substantially in the form of "Amendment No. 3 to  
    Exchange and Transfer Agreement," attached to this ordinance as  
    Exhibit A, (ii) an amendment to the Interconnection Agreement,  
    substantially in the form of the "Talbot Hill Substation  
    Interconnection Agreement Amendment," attached to this ordinance as  
    Exhibit B and (iii) a payment agreement, substantially in the form of  
    the "Cedar Falls Line - Lake Youngs Substation Transfers Payment  
    Agreement," attached to this ordinance as Exhibit C.  
  
    Section 2.  Any acts taken in furtherance of this ordinance, but  
    prior to its effective date, are hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Exhibits  
  
    Exhibit A - Amendment No. 3 to Exchange and Transfer Agreement  
  
    Exhibit B - Talbot Hill Substation Interconnection Agreement  
    Amendment  
  
    Exhibit C - Cedar Falls Line - Lake Youngs Substation Transfers  
    Payment Agreement  
  
    Cindy Wright/CW  
  
    Lake Youngs Transmission Ordinance  
  
    August 14, 2003  
  
    version 1  
  
    Exhibit A  
  
    AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO  
  
    EXCHANGE AND TRANSFER AGREEMENT  
  
    This AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO EXCHANGE AND TRANSFER AGREEMENT (this  
    "Amendment") is entered into by and between Puget Sound Energy, Inc.  
    ("Puget" or "PSE"), formerly known as Puget Sound Power & Light  
    Company, and The City of Seattle, acting by and through its City  
    Light Department (the "City"), to further amend the Exchange And  
    Transfer Agreement Between Puget Sound Power & Light Company and The  
    City of Seattle dated as of May 23, 1977, as amended by the  
    Amendatory Agreement to Exchange and Transfer Agreement Between Puget  
    Sound Power & Light Company and The City of Seattle dated October 23,  
    1980 ("Amendment No. 1") and Amendment No. 2 to Exchange and Transfer  
    Agreement executed by the City on August 22, 1997 and by Puget on  
    November 21, 1997 ("Amendment No. 2") (as so amended, the "Transfer  
    Agreement" and as further amended by this Amendment, the "Amended  
    Transfer Agreement").  Each of PSE and the City is sometimes referred  
    to in this Amendment as "Party"; both of PSE and the City are  
    sometimes referred to together in this Amendment as "Parties."  
    Capitalized terms used in this Amendment, unless otherwise defined in  
    this Amendment, have the meanings set forth for such terms in the  
    Transfer Agreement.  
  
    Recitals  
  
    A.  Pursuant to the Transfer Agreement, the City makes available to  
    Puget the Net Power and Energy Output from the City's Cedar Falls  
    generating plant at a point of delivery approximately 0.5 miles north  
    of Puget's Fairwood Substation (point of delivery (A)) and at a point  
    of delivery on Puget's I.P. No. 1 115-kv line within the Cedar River  
    Watershed near Rattlesnake Lake upon which the transmission  
    facilities of the Parties interconnect (point of delivery (B)), the  
    latter point of delivery being more particularly described in  
    Amendment No. 1.  
  
    B.  Pursuant to the Transfer Agreement, Puget makes available to the  
    City Net Power and Energy Output of the City's Cedar Falls generating  
    plant less transmission losses at Puget's Talbot Hill Substation  
    where the 230-kv facilities of the parties are interconnected (point  
    of delivery (C)), and subject to scheduling by the City, at a point  
    of interconnection with the City near the NC Machinery facility  
    located at 17025 West Valley Highway (point of delivery (D)), and at  
    a point of interconnection with the City near the NC Machinery  
    facility located at 17035 West Valley Highway (point of delivery  
    (E)), such points of delivery being more particularly described in  
    Amendment No. 2.  
  
    C.  Pursuant to the Transfer Agreement, the City transfers for Puget  
    over the City's 115-kv transmission line (the "Cedar Falls Line"), or  
    any section thereof, power and energy in excess of the capability of  
    that line used to transmit Net Power and Energy Output of the Cedar  
    Falls generating plant.  Puget currently uses such rights to transfer  
    power and energy to its customers and to support electric system  
    reliability.  
  
    D.  By letter dated March 30, 1983, the Parties agreed that as long  
    as the metering of the Cedar Falls generating plant is appropriately  
    compensated (i.e., to the vicinity of Fairwood Substation), and there  
    occur no other overriding requirements for other metering, the  
    Parties will use the existing metering facilities in lieu of  
    installing those required by Section 2.2 of the Transfer Agreement,  
    as amended by Amendment No. 1.  
  
    E.  In 2000, the City relocated point of delivery (B) near  
    Rattlesnake Lake from pole no. RT 0/417 to pole no. 1/138, to  
    accommodate the construction and operation of a new visitor center by  
    Seattle Public Utilities ("SPU"), a department of The City of  
    Seattle.  The City removed approximately 0.6 miles of Puget's I.P.  
    No. 1 115-kv line as part of this relocation, as well as the segment  
    of the City's original tap line between pole no. 345 and pole no. RT  
    0/417.  The City also constructed a 115-kv transmission line segment  
    along a right-of-way parallel to the watershed access road no. 101  
    from pole no. 345 to pole no. 1/138 to extend its tap line to the  
    relocated interconnection with Puget.  This Amendment is intended to,  
    among other things, update the Transfer Agreement to reflect a  
    revised point of delivery (B) at the tap line interconnection near  
    Rattlesnake Lake.  
  
    F.  In response to a request from SPU that Puget provide, commencing  
    in 2003, primary voltage electric service to a future water treatment  
    facility at the Lake Youngs Reservation, Puget has commenced  
    construction activities for a substation to be owned by Puget within  
    SPU's Lake Youngs Reservation (the "Lake Youngs Substation").  The  
    Lake Youngs Substation, at some future time, may be used by Puget to  
    provide electric service to other Puget customers.  The water  
    treatment facility currently is under construction and is expected to  
    be operational in 2003.  
  
    G.  Puget has exercised its right under the Transfer Agreement to add  
    a new interconnection on the Cedar Falls Line to serve the Lake  
    Youngs Substation, and the Parties desire to amend the Transfer  
    Agreement to reflect such interconnection.  
  
    H.  Puget desires to secure firm long-term rights to transfer power  
    and energy to the Lake Youngs Substation over the Cedar Falls Line,  
    and the City desires to secure firm long-term rights to have power  
    and energy from the Cedar Falls generating plant or from substitute  
    or additional generation facilities made available to the City at  
    points of delivery C, D and E (as described in Amendment No. 2), all  
    subject to the provisions of this Amendment.  
  
    I.  Certain facilities described in this Amendment No. 3 are depicted  
    in (a) the City's Drawing D-36440, Rev. 1, dated November 13, 2002,  
    entitled "115-kv Fairwood - Cedar Falls (SCL) PSE Lake Youngs  
    Substation Loop Through" and (b) the City's Drawing 03, dated March  
    26, 2003, entitled "SCL PSE Interconnection near Rattlesnake Lake."  
  
    The Parties, therefore, agree as follows:  
  
    1.  The Transfer Agreement is hereby amended as set forth in the  
    conformed version of the Amended Transfer Agreement attached hereto  
    as Exhibit A and by this reference incorporated herein.  Such  
    conformed version reflects the text of the Transfer Agreement, with  
    the specific changes pursuant to this Amendment marked as additions  
    and deletions in such conformed version.  All of the provisions of  
    the Transfer Agreement, except as expressly modified by this  
    Amendment and shown in Exhibit A, remain in full force and effect.  
  
    2.  This Amendment shall be effective at 2400 hours on the latest to  
    occur of (a) December 1, 2003, unless by such date, with respect to  
    the City, this Amendment has not been approved by an ordinance of the  
    Seattle City Council; provided, that if an ordinance of the Seattle  
    City Council with respect to this Amendment imposes any change to or  
    new condition on this Amendment, this Amendment shall not be or  
    become effective until the date on which both Parties have agreed in  
    writing to such change or new condition, (b) the date by which this  
    Amendment has, with respect to Puget, been approved, accepted for  
    filing or otherwise permitted to become effective by FERC; provided,  
    that if FERC approves or accepts this Amendment for filing, or  
    otherwise permits it to become effective with any change or new  
    condition, this Amendment shall not be or become effective until the  
    date on which both Parties have agreed in writing to such change or  
    new condition, and (c) the execution of this Amendment by both of the  
    Parties.  
  
    Puget Sound Energy, Inc.  
  
    By    
  
    Title:   
  
    Date Signed:   
  
  
  
    The City of Seattle  
  
    By    
  
    Title:   
  
        City Light Department  
  
    Date Signed:   
  
  
  
    Exhibit A  
  
    to Amendment No. 3  
  
    CONFORMED VERSION  
  
    OF  
  
    EXCHANGE AND TRANSFER AGREEMENT  
  
    BETWEEN  
  
    PUGET SOUND ENERGY, INC.  
  
    (FORMERLY KNOWN AS PUGET SOUND  
  
    POWER & LIGHT COMPANY)  
  
    AND  
  
    THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    AGREEMENT made this 23rd day of May, 1977, by and between PUGET SOUND  
    ENERGY, INC., formerly known as PUGET SOUND POWER & LIGHT COMPANY  
    ("Puget"), a Washington corporation, and theTHE CITY OF SEATTLE,  
    acting by and through its City Light Department ("City"), a municipal  
    corporation of the State of Washington.  
  
    Recitals  
  
    A.  The City is abandoningabandoned a segment of its Seattle-Tacoma  
    Tie Line which iswas used in part to transmit power and energy into  
    its system from its Cedar Falls generating plant.  
  
    B.  Puget has transmission facilities which, if interconnected with  
    the City's Cedar Falls hydroelectric generating plant ("Cedar Falls  
    generating plant") and its related transmission facilities, have the  
    capability of transmitting such power and energy into the City's  
    system.  
  
    C.  In exchange for Puget's agreement to transmit such power and  
    energy into the City's system, the City will transfer power for Puget  
    over the tap line described in Section 2.2 hereof and over all or a  
    portion of its Cedar Falls 115-kv transmission line between the Cedar  
    Falls generating plant and the point where said line meets the West  
    Valley Highway in Renton, such portion together with the tap line  
    described in Section 2.2 hereof, hereinafter called "Cedar Falls  
    Line."  
  
    D.  Puget and the City have constructed a 230-kv interconnection at  
    Puget's Talbot Hill Substation.  
  
    Agreements  
  
    The Parties hereto agree as follows:  
  
    1.  Term  
  
    1.1  This Agreement shall be effective on the date of execution and  
    shall be for a term of ten (10) years.  The Agreement shall continue  
    thereafter unless terminated (i) upon three (3) years' prior written  
    notice by either party to the other. party if such notice is received  
    by such other party on or before 2400 hours on December 31, 2031 or  
    (ii) upon seven (7) years' prior written notice by either party to  
    the other party if such notice is received by such other party after  
    2400 hours on December 31, 2031.  Notice on behalf of the City shall  
    be given by itsthe Superintendent of Lightingthe City Light  
    Department or his designee.  
  
    1.2  Notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement effective on  
    or before to 2400 hours on December 31, 2038, by either party  
    pursuant to Section 1.1, Section 10 and all other provisions of this  
    Agreement that are necessary to effectuate the service provided by  
    either party pursuant to Section 10 shall survive such termination  
    and shall remain in effect until 2400 hours on December 31, 2038.  
    Neither Section 10 nor any other provision of this Agreement shall  
    survive any termination of this Agreement by either party pursuant to  
    Section 1.1 after 2400 hours on December 31, 2038.  
  
    2.  Installation of Facilities  
  
    2.1  Puget shallhas constructconstructed and retainretains ownership  
    of a 115-kv tie line interconnecting its system with the City's Cedar  
    Falls Line at a point approximately 0.5 miles north of Puget's  
    Fairwood Substation.   The City, at its expense, has installed a pole  
    on the Cedar Falls Line right of way on which Puget, at its expense,  
    has terminated its tie line.  The City has installed jumpers at said  
    pole to make the connection between the Cedar Falls Line and Puget's  
    tie line.  
  
    During the term of this Agreement, Puget may also make such other  
    interconnections with the City's Cedar Falls Line, at any point or  
    points west of the western boundary of the Cedar River Watershed, as  
    Puget deems advisable.  Costs of making such other interconnections  
    will be paid by Puget.  
  
    2.2  The City has constructed and will placeplaced in operation a  
    115-kv tap line between the Cedar Falls Line in the vicinity of the  
    Cedar Falls Generatinggenerating Stationplant and Puget's I.P. No. 1,  
    115-kv line near Rattlesnake Lake within the northeast quarter of  
    Section 34, Township 23 North, Range 8 East, W. M. in King County,  
    Washington, where the vicinitytransmission systems of the former  
    Cedar Falls Substationparties are interconnected upon pole no. 1/138,  
    which is designated as point of the Milwaukee Railroaddelivery (B) in  
    Exhibit B hereto.  The City has paid the entire cost of this tap  
    line, including the extension of such tap line to the relocated point  
    of delivery (B), and will retain ownership thereof.  The City willhas  
    installinstalled a power circuit breaker, with necessary metering and  
    relaying, near the connection of the tap line and the Cedar Falls  
    line and will retain ownership thereof.  Puget willhas  
    constructconstructed and placeplaced in operation the connection  
    between the City's tap line and Puget's I.P. No. 1 line in the  
    vicinity of the old Milwaukee Stationnear Rattlesnake Lake and will  
    retain ownership thereof and will provide a method of switching on  
    the Hyak side of said connection.  
  
    2.3  The City has furnished, installed and owns metering equipment  
    which is suitable for interchange metering of the power and energy  
    output of the Cedar Falls generating plant less station service and  
    local distribution loads ("Net Power and Energy Output") on the 115-  
    kv side of the step-up transformer at said plant.  
  
    Metering for the point of delivery described in Section 3.2(C) will  
    be accomplished by using metering facilities at the City's South  
    Substation terminal of the transmission line which forms the  
    interconnection until such time as mutually agreeable metering  
    facilities are installed at the point of delivery.  
  
    2.4  Each party shall be responsible for maintaining, repairing or  
    replacing the facilities owned by it under this Section 2 of this  
    Agreement.  
  
    2.5  The City may interconnect one or more additional generation  
    resources to the Cedar Falls Line, provided that the Net Power and  
    Energy Output together with the power and energy output of such  
    additional generation resources (less station service and local  
    distribution loads) ("Combined Output") does not exceed the greater  
    of (a) the megawatt amount of the Net Power and Energy Output and (b)  
    25  MW of the Combined Output, plus transmission losses (as computed  
    pursuant to Section 4).  
  
    3.  Delivery Provisions  
  
    3.1  The City shall make available to Puget the Net Power and  
    EnergyCombined Output of the Cedar Falls generating plant at points  
    of delivery (A) and (B) described below.  
  
    (A)  Cedar Falls 115-kv Transmission Line  
  
    Location:  The point at which said transmission line and Puget's 115-  
    kv facilities interconnect approximately 0.5 miles north of Puget's  
    Fairwood Substation and such other points, as designated by Puget, if  
    Puget constructs additional interconnections to said transmission  
    line as permitted in paragraph 2.1 of this Agreement.  
  
    Period of Service:  The term of this Agreement.  
  
    Voltage:  115-kv.  
  
    (B)  Cedar Falls Generating Plant  
  
    Location:  The point at which the City's tap line will interconnect  
    with Puget's I.P. No. 1 line as described in paragraph 2.2 of this  
    Agreement.  
  
    Period of Service:  The term of this Agreement.  
  
    Voltage:  115-kv.  
  
    3.2  Puget shall make available to the City the Net Power and  
    EnergyCombined Output of the Cedar Falls generating plant less  
    transmission losses (described in Section 4 of this Agreement) at  
    point of delivery (C) described below and, subject to scheduling by  
    the City pursuant to Section 3.3 of this Agreement, at points of  
    delivery (D) and (E) described below.  
  
    (C)  Talbot Hill Substation  
  
    Location:  The point at which the 230-kilovolt facilities of the  
    parties are interconnected in Puget's Talbot Hill Substation.  
  
    Period of Service:  The term of this Agreement.  
  
    Voltage:  230-kilovolt.  
  
    (D)  Any of the points in the City's vault at which (i) the City's  
    3#1 2/0 AL XLP 26 kilovolt primary wire serving the NC Machinery  
    facility located at 17025 West Valley Highway and (ii) Puget's  
    primary wire running thirty (30) feet south and fifty-eight (58) feet  
    west from the Puget vault located at grid number 316787-165151, are  
    connected.  
  
    Period of Service:  The term of this Agreement.  
  
    Voltage:  12.5-kilovolt.  
  
    (E)  Any of the points in City Light's vault at which (i) City  
    Light's 3#1 2/0 AL XLP 26 kilovolt primary wire serving the NC  
    Machinery facility located at 17035 West Valley Highway and (ii)  
    Puget's primary wire running three hundred thirty (330) feet south  
    and fifty-eight (58) feet west from the Puget vault located at grid  
    number 316787-165151, are connected.  
  
    Period of Service:  The term of this Agreement.  
  
    Voltage:  12.5-kilovolt.  
  
    3.3  The City shall notify Puget, at least twenty-four (24) hours in  
    advance of each working day and immediately succeeding non-working  
    days during the term of this Agreement, of the amount of the Net  
    Power and EnergyCombined Output of the Cedar Falls generating plant  
    (expressed in kilowatt-hours) that Puget is to make available to the  
    City at each of the Points of Delivery described in Sections 3.2(D)  
    and (E) during each hour of such working day and immediately  
    succeeding non-working days.  Following receipt of such advance  
    notice, Puget shall make available to the City at each of the Points  
    of Delivery described in Sections 3.2(D) and (E) the amount of  
    Electric Power indicated in such notice (not to exceed the total  
    amount of the Electric Power made available to the City at points of  
    delivery 3.1(A) and (B) pursuant to Section 3.1) for each hour of  
    such working day and immediately succeeding non-working days.  For  
    purposes of this Agreement, "working day" means any day observed by  
    both the City and Puget as a working day.  Any differences in the  
    amounts of Electric Power that are scheduled pursuant to this Section  
    3.6 and that are actually made available by Puget pursuant to this  
    Section 3.6 shall be reconciled by the Partiesparties' dispatchers  
    pursuant to terms mutually agreeable to each of the Partiesparties.  
  
    4.  Transmission Losses  
  
    Transmission losses shall be computed as if the entire Net Power and  
    EnergyCombined Output of the Cedar Falls generating plant were  
    transmitted by the Cedar Falls Line from the Cedar Falls generating  
    plant and any additional generation resources interconnected to the  
    Cedar Falls Line pursuant to Section 2.5 to the point where said line  
    is connected to Puget's facilities closest to the western boundary of  
    the Cedar River Watershed.  
  
    5.  Transfer of Power by City for Puget  
  
    The City shall transfer power and energy for Puget over the Cedar  
    Falls line or any section thereof in excess of the capability of that  
    line used to transmit the Net Power and EnergyCombined Output of the  
    Cedar Falls generating plant to Puget's system, and will permit  
    additional connections to be made from that line to Puget's system  
    from time to time and will further make necessary rearrangements of  
    equipment on existing pole line structures at Puget's request.  The  
    City will also, to accommodate excess capability requirements for  
    Puget which would otherwise overload the line, reconductor those  
    sections of such line at Puget's request provided that such  
    reconductoring be within the structural capability of the existing  
    pole line structures.  All such work shall be upon reasonable prior  
    written notice to the City and mutually agreeable work standards.  
    All direct and indirect costs associated with such work shall be  
    borne by Puget, as shall all direct and indirect costs associated  
    with any modifications required by a governmental agency of that  
    portion of Cedar Falls Line between 116th Avenue Southeast in Renton  
    and its termination at the West Valley Highway provided, however, in  
    lieu of making any such required modifications, Puget may terminate  
    this Agreement effective at such time as such modifications would be  
    required to commence.  
  
    6.  Cedar Falls Generating Plant Shutdown  
  
    During any period of time that the Cedar Falls generating plant is  
    shut down, the City may schedule to Puget at delivery point (C)  
    designated in Section 3.2 of this Agreement, such power and energy as  
    is required for station service and local distribution at the Cedar  
    Falls generating plant and Puget shall deliver such power and energy  
    to the City at delivery points (A) and (B) designated in Section 3.1  
    of this Agreement.  
  
    7.  Payment for Transmission of Power  
  
    The service provided by Puget in transferring Cedar Falls power and  
    energyCombined Output to Seattle and in transferring station service  
    from the City to the Cedar Falls plant is approximately equal in  
    value to the service provided by the City to Puget for use of the  
    Cedar Falls 115-kv transmission line and, therefore, there will be no  
    charge for such service by either party.  
  
    8.  Maintenance of Facilities and Liability  
  
    Each party at its expense will maintain its facilities used under  
    this Agreement in accordance with good utility practice and will keep  
    such facilities in continuing good operating condition as far as  
    reasonable diligence will permit provided, however, that neither  
    party shall be liable to the other hereunder for any interruption,  
    suspension, curtailment or fluctuation in the power and energy to be  
    transferred hereunder caused by the necessity of making repairs or  
    changes in facilities used for such transfer, or by reason of any act  
    or omission including negligence of the party transferring the power  
    and energy, or by reason of any cause beyond either party's  
    reasonable control, including but not limited to the following:  
    fire, flood, winds, acts of the elements, court orders, insurrections  
    or riots, generation failures, lack of sufficient generating  
    capacity, breakdown of or damage to facilities of the party or of  
    third parties, acts of God or public enemy, strikes or other labor  
    disputes, civil, military or governmental authority.  Neither party  
    shall be liable to the other hereunder for electrical disturbances  
    originating on or transmitted through electrical systems with which  
    the party's system is interconnected and acts or omission of third  
    parties.  Either party shall have the right to cancel this Agreement  
    if any of its facilities necessary for the performance of its  
    obligations hereunder are taken by eminent domain or under threat  
    thereof or if it is unable to use such facilities because of the  
    expiration or termination of franchise rights of which it is unable  
    to secure renewal.  
  
    9.  Assignment  
  
    This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding  
    upon the successors and assigns of the respective parties provided,  
    however, that neither this Agreement nor any interest herein shall be  
    transferred or assigned by either party without the written consent  
    of the other, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or  
    delayed.  
  
    10.  Lake Youngs Substation  
  
    10.1  In connection with an additional interconnection from the Cedar  
    Falls Line to Puget's Lake Youngs Substation to be constructed and  
    installed by Puget in 2003 (such interconnection as shown in Exhibit  
    A hereto), the City shall plan, design, construct and own as part of  
    its Cedar Falls Line two (2) transmission get-aways, which shall be  
    interconnected to the two (2) dead-end structures located at the Lake  
    Youngs Substation to be constructed and owned by Puget.  
  
    10.2  Puget shall, at its expense, provide (a) a bus with a nominal  
    capacity rating of 125 MW through the Lake Youngs Substation and (b)  
    electrical continuity during normal operation of the Lake Youngs  
    Substation and the Cedar Falls Line.  If the City upgrades the Cedar  
    Falls Line during the term of this Agreement or thereafter so long as  
    section 10.3(a) is in effect, Puget shall, at the City's expense,  
    cooperate with the City to upgrade the interconnection at the Lake  
    Youngs Substation to a rating compatible with the upgraded Cedar  
    Falls Line.  
  
    10.3  Following any termination of this Agreement effective on or  
    before December 31, 2038, pursuant to Section 1.1 and subject to the  
    survival provisions set forth in Section 1.2, the parties shall have  
    the following continuing rights under this Agreement with respect to  
    the transfer of power and energy through December 31, 2038:  
  
    (a)  If the City terminates this Agreement effective on or before  
    December 31, 2038, pursuant to Section 1.1, the City shall transfer  
    25 MW of power and energy for Puget (or such lesser amount of power  
    and energy as Puget may make available) over the Cedar Falls Line or  
    any section thereof and shall make such power and energy available to  
    Puget at the following point of delivery:  
  
    Lake Youngs Substation  
  
    Location:  The points at which the two (2) transmission get-aways  
    referred to in Section 10.1 are interconnected to Puget's two (2)  
    dead-end structures in the Lake Youngs Substation.  
  
    Period of Service:  The term of this Agreement.  
  
    Voltage:  115-kilovolt.  
  
    Puget shall pay to the City charges for the service provided pursuant  
    to this Section 10.3(a) pursuant to the applicable cost-based  
    wholesale transmission rate approved from time to time by ordinance  
    of the City or as otherwise required by law.  
  
    (b)  If Puget terminates this Agreement effective on or before  
    December 31, 2038, pursuant to Section 1.1, Puget shall make  
    available to the City the Combined Output pursuant and subject to  
    Section 3.2, and the City shall pay to Puget charges for such service  
    pursuant to the applicable cost-based wholesale transmission tariff  
    as may be approved from time to time by the Federal Energy Regulatory  
    Commission or other regulatory entity with jurisdiction.  
  
    (c)  Each party shall provide metering data to the other party as may  
    be reasonably required to demonstrate the amount of power and energy  
    made available by the City to Puget over the Cedar Falls Line at the  
    Lake Youngs Substation or made available by Puget to the City  
    pursuant and subject to Section 3.2.  
  
    (d)  If any third party imposes transmission congestion clearing  
    charges on the City's Cedar Fall's Line, each party shall pay the  
    transmission congestion clearing charges that result from its  
    injections and withdrawals of electric power and energy on the Cedar  
    Falls Line.  
  
    DATED the day and year first above written.  
  
    PUGET SOUND POWER AND LIGHT COMPANY  
  
    By:  
  
    Title:  
  
    CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    By:  
  
    Title:  
  
    ATTEST:  
  
      City Comptroller  
  
      EXHIBIT A  
  
    Exhibit B  
  
    TALBOT HILL SUBSTATION  
  
    INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENT AMENDMENT  
  
    This TALBOT HILL SUBSTATION INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENT AMENDMENT (this  
    "Interconnection Agreement Amendment") is entered into by and between  
    Puget Sound Energy, Inc. ("Puget"), formerly known as Puget Sound  
    Power & Light Company, and The City of Seattle, acting by and through  
    its City Light Department ("City"), to memorialize the agreement of  
    the parties regarding the term of the Interconnection Agreement made  
    as of May 23, 1977, by Puget and the City regarding the  
    interconnection of the parties' respective 230 kV facilities at  
    Puget's Talbot Hill Substation ("Interconnection Agreement").  Each  
    of Puget and the City is sometimes referred to in this  
    Interconnection Agreement Amendment as "Party"; both of Puget and the  
    City are sometimes referred to together in this Interconnection  
    Agreement Amendment as "Parties."  
  
    RECITALS  
  
    A.  Puget owns and operates a 230 kV substation in south King County  
    known as the Talbot Hill Substation.  
  
    B.  On May 23, 1977, the City and Puget entered into both the  
    Exchange and Transfer Agreement Between Puget Sound Power & Light  
    Company and the City of Seattle (as amended prior to the date hereof,  
    the "Transfer Agreement") and the Interconnection Agreement.  
  
    C.  The City and Puget are contemporaneously herewith amending the  
    Transfer Agreement to provide, among other things, that certain power  
    and energy transfer rights thereunder will extend through December  
    31, 2038 (as so amended, the "Amended Transfer Agreement"), a  
    conformed version of which, reflecting all amendments, is attached  
    hereto as Exhibit A and by this reference incorporated herein.  
  
    D.  The Interconnection Agreement is necessary to implement the  
    rights and obligations of the Parties under the Amended Transfer  
    Agreement and also provides mutual benefits in terms of system  
    reliability and facilitation of commercial transactions between the  
    Parties.  
  
    E.  The Interconnection Agreement is stated therein to expire on June  
    1, 1997; however, the Parties, by mutual oral agreement, have  
    continued to operate under the Interconnection Agreement and have  
    deemed it to continue to be in effect as of the date hereof.  
  
    F.  The Parties desire to hereby memorialize their agreement that the  
    Interconnection Agreement remains in effect and will continue to do  
    so for the term set forth herein.  
  
    Now, therefore, the Parties agree as follows:  
  
    1.  The Interconnection Agreement has continued and will continue in  
    full force and effect from June 1, 1997 to the effective date of this  
    Interconnection Agreement Amendment.  
  
    2.  In Section 1 of the Interconnection Agreement, all of the words  
    following "shall terminate" are deleted and the following is inserted  
    in lieu thereof:  
  
    on the seventh (7th) anniversary of the date on which either party to  
    this Agreement provides written notice to the other party of the  
    termination of this Agreement; provided, that for so long as Puget is  
    obligated to provide transfer service to Seattle pursuant to Section  
    10 of the Amended Transfer Agreement, this Agreement shall continue  
    in full force and effect to effectuate such transfer service.  
  
    3.  All of the provisions of the Interconnection Agreement, unless  
    expressly modified by this Amendment, remain in full force and  
    effect.  
  
    4.  This Interconnection Agreement Amendment shall be effective at  
    2400 hours on the later of (a) the date by which this Interconnection  
    Agreement Amendment has, with respect to the City, been approved by  
    an ordinance of the Seattle City Council; provided, that if such  
    ordinance imposes any change to or new condition on this  
    Interconnection Agreement Amendment, this Interconnection Agreement  
    Amendment shall not be or become effective until the date on which  
    both Parties have agreed in writing to such change or new condition  
    or (b) the date by which this Interconnection Agreement Amendment  
    has, with respect to Puget, been approved, accepted for filing or  
    otherwise permitted to become effective by FERC; provided, that if  
    FERC approves or accepts this Interconnection Agreement Amendment for  
    filing, or otherwise permits it to become effective with any change  
    or new condition, this Interconnection Agreement Amendment shall not  
    be or become effective until the date on which both Parties have  
    agreed in writing to such change or new condition.  
  
    THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    CITY LIGHT DEPARTMENT      PUGET SOUND ENERGY, INC.  
  
    By: ___________________________    By: __________________________  
  
    Name: ________________________      Name: ________________________  
  
    Title: _________________________      Title:  
    _________________________  
  
    Date signed: ____________________    Date signed: ___________________  
  
      EXHIBIT B  
  
    Exhibit A to Exhibit B  
  
    CONFORMED VERSION  
  
    OF  
  
    EXCHANGE AND TRANSFER AGREEMENT  
  
    BETWEEN  
  
    PUGET SOUND ENERGY, INC.  
  
    (FORMERLY KNOWN AS PUGET SOUND  
  
    POWER & LIGHT COMPANY)  
  
    AND  
  
    THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    AGREEMENT made this 23rd day of May, 1977, by and between PUGET SOUND  
    ENERGY, INC., formerly known as PUGET SOUND POWER & LIGHT COMPANY  
    ("Puget"), a Washington corporation, and theTHE CITY OF SEATTLE,  
    acting by and through its City Light Department ("City"), a municipal  
    corporation of the State of Washington.  
  
    Recitals  
  
    A.  The City is abandoningabandoned a segment of its Seattle-Tacoma  
    Tie Line which iswas used in part to transmit power and energy into  
    its system from its Cedar Falls generating plant.  
  
    B.  Puget has transmission facilities which, if interconnected with  
    the City's Cedar Falls hydroelectric generating plant ("Cedar Falls  
    generating plant") and its related transmission facilities, have the  
    capability of transmitting such power and energy into the City's  
    system.  
  
    C.  In exchange for Puget's agreement to transmit such power and  
    energy into the City's system, the City will transfer power for Puget  
    over the tap line described in Section 2.2 hereof and over all or a  
    portion of its Cedar Falls 115-kv transmission line between the Cedar  
    Falls generating plant and the point where said line meets the West  
    Valley Highway in Renton, such portion together with the tap line  
    described in Section 2.2 hereof, hereinafter called "Cedar Falls  
    Line."  
  
    D.  Puget and the City have constructed a 230-kv interconnection at  
    Puget's Talbot Hill Substation.  
  
    Agreements  
  
    The Parties hereto agree as follows:  
  
    1.  Term  
  
    1.1  This Agreement shall be effective on the date of execution and  
    shall be for a term of ten (10) years.  The Agreement shall continue  
    thereafter unless terminated (i) upon three (3) years' prior written  
    notice by either party to the other. party if such notice is received  
    by such other party on or before 2400 hours on December 31, 2031 or  
    (ii) upon seven (7) years' prior written notice by either party to  
    the other party if such notice is received by such other party after  
    2400 hours on December 31, 2031.  Notice on behalf of the City shall  
    be given by itsthe Superintendent of Lightingthe City Light  
    Department or his designee.  
  
    1.2  Notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement effective on  
    or before to 2400 hours on December 31, 2038, by either party  
    pursuant to Section 1.1, Section 10 and all other provisions of this  
    Agreement that are necessary to effectuate the service provided by  
    either party pursuant to Section 10 shall survive such termination  
    and shall remain in effect until 2400 hours on December 31, 2038.  
    Neither Section 10 nor any other provision of this Agreement shall  
    survive any termination of this Agreement by either party pursuant to  
    Section 1.1 after 2400 hours on December 31, 2038.  
  
    2.  Installation of Facilities  
  
    2.1  Puget shallhas constructconstructed and retainretains ownership  
    of a 115-kv tie line interconnecting its system with the City's Cedar  
    Falls Line at a point approximately 0.5 miles north of Puget's  
    Fairwood Substation.   The City, at its expense, has installed a pole  
    on the Cedar Falls Line right of way on which Puget, at its expense,  
    has terminated its tie line.  The City has installed jumpers at said  
    pole to make the connection between the Cedar Falls Line and Puget's  
    tie line.  
  
    During the term of this Agreement, Puget may also make such other  
    interconnections with the City's Cedar Falls Line, at any point or  
    points west of the western boundary of the Cedar River Watershed, as  
    Puget deems advisable.  Costs of making such other interconnections  
    will be paid by Puget.  
  
    2.2  The City has constructed and will placeplaced in operation a  
    115-kv tap line between the Cedar Falls Line in the vicinity of the  
    Cedar Falls Generatinggenerating Stationplant and Puget's I.P. No. 1,  
    115-kv line near Rattlesnake Lake within the northeast quarter of  
    Section 34, Township 23 North, Range 8 East, W. M. in King County,  
    Washington, where the vicinitytransmission systems of the former  
    Cedar Falls Substationparties are interconnected upon pole no. 1/138,  
    which is designated as point of the Milwaukee Railroaddelivery (B) in  
    Exhibit B hereto.  The City has paid the entire cost of this tap  
    line, including the extension of such tap line to the relocated point  
    of delivery (B), and will retain ownership thereof.  The City willhas  
    installinstalled a power circuit breaker, with necessary metering and  
    relaying, near the connection of the tap line and the Cedar Falls  
    line and will retain ownership thereof.  Puget willhas  
    constructconstructed and placeplaced in operation the connection  
    between the City's tap line and Puget's I.P. No. 1 line in the  
    vicinity of the old Milwaukee Stationnear Rattlesnake Lake and will  
    retain ownership thereof and will provide a method of switching on  
    the Hyak side of said connection.  
  
    2.3  The City has furnished, installed and owns metering equipment  
    which is suitable for interchange metering of the power and energy  
    output of the Cedar Falls generating plant less station service and  
    local distribution loads ("Net Power and Energy Output") on the 115-  
    kv side of the step-up transformer at said plant.  
  
    Metering for the point of delivery described in Section 3.2(C) will  
    be accomplished by using metering facilities at the City's South  
    Substation terminal of the transmission line which forms the  
    interconnection until such time as mutually agreeable metering  
    facilities are installed at the point of delivery.  
  
    2.4  Each party shall be responsible for maintaining, repairing or  
    replacing the facilities owned by it under this Section 2 of this  
    Agreement.  
  
    2.5  The City may interconnect one or more additional generation  
    resources to the Cedar Falls Line, provided that the Net Power and  
    Energy Output together with the power and energy output of such  
    additional generation resources (less station service and local  
    distribution loads) ("Combined Output") does not exceed the greater  
    of (a) the megawatt amount of the Net Power and Energy Output and (b)  
    25  MW of the Combined Output, plus transmission losses (as computed  
    pursuant to Section 4).  
  
    3.  Delivery Provisions  
  
    3.1  The City shall make available to Puget the Net Power and  
    EnergyCombined Output of the Cedar Falls generating plant at points  
    of delivery (A) and (B) described below.  
  
    (A)  Cedar Falls 115-kv Transmission Line  
  
    Location:  The point at which said transmission line and Puget's 115-  
    kv facilities interconnect approximately 0.5 miles north of Puget's  
    Fairwood Substation and such other points, as designated by Puget, if  
    Puget constructs additional interconnections to said transmission  
    line as permitted in paragraph 2.1 of this Agreement.  
  
    Period of Service:  The term of this Agreement.  
  
    Voltage:  115-kv.  
  
    (B)  Cedar Falls Generating Plant  
  
    Location:  The point at which the City's tap line will interconnect  
    with Puget's I.P. No. 1 line as described in paragraph 2.2 of this  
    Agreement.  
  
    Period of Service:  The term of this Agreement.  
  
    Voltage:  115-kv.  
  
    3.2  Puget shall make available to the City the Net Power and  
    EnergyCombined Output of the Cedar Falls generating plant less  
    transmission losses (described in Section 4 of this Agreement) at  
    point of delivery (C) described below and, subject to scheduling by  
    the City pursuant to Section 3.3 of this Agreement, at points of  
    delivery (D) and (E) described below.  
  
    (C)  Talbot Hill Substation  
  
    Location:  The point at which the 230-kilovolt facilities of the  
    parties are interconnected in Puget's Talbot Hill Substation.  
  
    Period of Service:  The term of this Agreement.  
  
    Voltage:  230-kilovolt.  
  
    (D)  Any of the points in the City's vault at which (i) the City's  
    3#1 2/0 AL XLP 26 kilovolt primary wire serving the NC Machinery  
    facility located at 17025 West Valley Highway and (ii) Puget's  
    primary wire running thirty (30) feet south and fifty-eight (58) feet  
    west from the Puget vault located at grid number 316787-165151, are  
    connected.  
  
    Period of Service:  The term of this Agreement.  
  
    Voltage:  12.5-kilovolt.  
  
    (E)  Any of the points in City Light's vault at which (i) City  
    Light's 3#1 2/0 AL XLP 26 kilovolt primary wire serving the NC  
    Machinery facility located at 17035 West Valley Highway and (ii)  
    Puget's primary wire running three hundred thirty (330) feet south  
    and fifty-eight (58) feet west from the Puget vault located at grid  
    number 316787-165151, are connected.  
  
    Period of Service:  The term of this Agreement.  
  
    Voltage:  12.5-kilovolt.  
  
    3.3  The City shall notify Puget, at least twenty-four (24) hours in  
    advance of each working day and immediately succeeding non-working  
    days during the term of this Agreement, of the amount of the Net  
    Power and EnergyCombined Output of the Cedar Falls generating plant  
    (expressed in kilowatt-hours) that Puget is to make available to the  
    City at each of the Points of Delivery described in Sections 3.2(D)  
    and (E) during each hour of such working day and immediately  
    succeeding non-working days.  Following receipt of such advance  
    notice, Puget shall make available to the City at each of the Points  
    of Delivery described in Sections 3.2(D) and (E) the amount of  
    Electric Power indicated in such notice (not to exceed the total  
    amount of the Electric Power made available to the City at points of  
    delivery 3.1(A) and (B) pursuant to Section 3.1) for each hour of  
    such working day and immediately succeeding non-working days.  For  
    purposes of this Agreement, "working day" means any day observed by  
    both the City and Puget as a working day.  Any differences in the  
    amounts of Electric Power that are scheduled pursuant to this Section  
    3.6 and that are actually made available by Puget pursuant to this  
    Section 3.6 shall be reconciled by the Partiesparties' dispatchers  
    pursuant to terms mutually agreeable to each of the Partiesparties.  
  
    4.  Transmission Losses  
  
    Transmission losses shall be computed as if the entire Net Power and  
    EnergyCombined Output of the Cedar Falls generating plant were  
    transmitted by the Cedar Falls Line from the Cedar Falls generating  
    plant and any additional generation resources interconnected to the  
    Cedar Falls Line pursuant to Section 2.5 to the point where said line  
    is connected to Puget's facilities closest to the western boundary of  
    the Cedar River Watershed.  
  
    5.  Transfer of Power by City for Puget  
  
    The City shall transfer power and energy for Puget over the Cedar  
    Falls line or any section thereof in excess of the capability of that  
    line used to transmit the Net Power and EnergyCombined Output of the  
    Cedar Falls generating plant to Puget's system, and will permit  
    additional connections to be made from that line to Puget's system  
    from time to time and will further make necessary rearrangements of  
    equipment on existing pole line structures at Puget's request.  The  
    City will also, to accommodate excess capability requirements for  
    Puget which would otherwise overload the line, reconductor those  
    sections of such line at Puget's request provided that such  
    reconductoring be within the structural capability of the existing  
    pole line structures.  All such work shall be upon reasonable prior  
    written notice to the City and mutually agreeable work standards.  
    All direct and indirect costs associated with such work shall be  
    borne by Puget, as shall all direct and indirect costs associated  
    with any modifications required by a governmental agency of that  
    portion of Cedar Falls Line between 116th Avenue Southeast in Renton  
    and its termination at the West Valley Highway provided, however, in  
    lieu of making any such required modifications, Puget may terminate  
    this Agreement effective at such time as such modifications would be  
    required to commence.  
  
    6.  Cedar Falls Generating Plant Shutdown  
  
    During any period of time that the Cedar Falls generating plant is  
    shut down, the City may schedule to Puget at delivery point (C)  
    designated in Section 3.2 of this Agreement, such power and energy as  
    is required for station service and local distribution at the Cedar  
    Falls generating plant and Puget shall deliver such power and energy  
    to the City at delivery points (A) and (B) designated in Section 3.1  
    of this Agreement.  
  
    7.  Payment for Transmission of Power  
  
    The service provided by Puget in transferring Cedar Falls power and  
    energyCombined Output to Seattle and in transferring station service  
    from the City to the Cedar Falls plant is approximately equal in  
    value to the service provided by the City to Puget for use of the  
    Cedar Falls 115-kv transmission line and, therefore, there will be no  
    charge for such service by either party.  
  
    8.  Maintenance of Facilities and Liability  
  
    Each party at its expense will maintain its facilities used under  
    this Agreement in accordance with good utility practice and will keep  
    such facilities in continuing good operating condition as far as  
    reasonable diligence will permit provided, however, that neither  
    party shall be liable to the other hereunder for any interruption,  
    suspension, curtailment or fluctuation in the power and energy to be  
    transferred hereunder caused by the necessity of making repairs or  
    changes in facilities used for such transfer, or by reason of any act  
    or omission including negligence of the party transferring the power  
    and energy, or by reason of any cause beyond either party's  
    reasonable control, including but not limited to the following:  
    fire, flood, winds, acts of the elements, court orders, insurrections  
    or riots, generation failures, lack of sufficient generating  
    capacity, breakdown of or damage to facilities of the party or of  
    third parties, acts of God or public enemy, strikes or other labor  
    disputes, civil, military or governmental authority.  Neither party  
    shall be liable to the other hereunder for electrical disturbances  
    originating on or transmitted through electrical systems with which  
    the party's system is interconnected and acts or omission of third  
    parties.  Either party shall have the right to cancel this Agreement  
    if any of its facilities necessary for the performance of its  
    obligations hereunder are taken by eminent domain or under threat  
    thereof or if it is unable to use such facilities because of the  
    expiration or termination of franchise rights of which it is unable  
    to secure renewal.  
  
    9.  Assignment  
  
    This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding  
    upon the successors and assigns of the respective parties provided,  
    however, that neither this Agreement nor any interest herein shall be  
    transferred or assigned by either party without the written consent  
    of the other, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or  
    delayed.  
  
    10.  Lake Youngs Substation  
  
    10.1  In connection with an additional interconnection from the Cedar  
    Falls Line to Puget's Lake Youngs Substation to be constructed and  
    installed by Puget in 2003 (such interconnection as shown in Exhibit  
    A hereto), the City shall plan, design, construct and own as part of  
    its Cedar Falls Line two (2) transmission get-aways, which shall be  
    interconnected to the two (2) dead-end structures located at the Lake  
    Youngs Substation to be constructed and owned by Puget.  
  
    10.2  Puget shall, at its expense, provide (a) a bus with a nominal  
    capacity rating of 125 MW through the Lake Youngs Substation and (b)  
    electrical continuity during normal operation of the Lake Youngs  
    Substation and the Cedar Falls Line.  If the City upgrades the Cedar  
    Falls Line during the term of this Agreement or thereafter so long as  
    section 10.3(a) is in effect, Puget shall, at the City's expense,  
    cooperate with the City to upgrade the interconnection at the Lake  
    Youngs Substation to a rating compatible with the upgraded Cedar  
    Falls Line.  
  
    10.3  Following any termination of this Agreement effective on or  
    before December 31, 2038, pursuant to Section 1.1 and subject to the  
    survival provisions set forth in Section 1.2, the parties shall have  
    the following continuing rights under this Agreement with respect to  
    the transfer of power and energy through December 31, 2038:  
  
    (a)  If the City terminates this Agreement effective on or before  
    December 31, 2038, pursuant to Section 1.1, the City shall transfer  
    25 MW of power and energy for Puget (or such lesser amount of power  
    and energy as Puget may make available) over the Cedar Falls Line or  
    any section thereof and shall make such power and energy available to  
    Puget at the following point of delivery:  
  
    Lake Youngs Substation  
  
    Location:  The points at which the two (2) transmission get-aways  
    referred to in Section 10.1 are interconnected to Puget's two (2)  
    dead-end structures in the Lake Youngs Substation.  
  
    Period of Service:  The term of this Agreement.  
  
    Voltage:  115-kilovolt.  
  
    Puget shall pay to the City charges for the service provided pursuant  
    to this Section 10.3(a) pursuant to the applicable cost-based  
    wholesale transmission rate approved from time to time by ordinance  
    of the City or as otherwise required by law.  
  
    (b)  If Puget terminates this Agreement effective on or before  
    December 31, 2038, pursuant to Section 1.1, Puget shall make  
    available to the City the Combined Output pursuant and subject to  
    Section 3.2, and the City shall pay to Puget charges for such service  
    pursuant to the applicable cost-based wholesale transmission tariff  
    as may be approved from time to time by the Federal Energy Regulatory  
    Commission or other regulatory entity with jurisdiction.  
  
    (c)  Each party shall provide metering data to the other party as may  
    be reasonably required to demonstrate the amount of power and energy  
    made available by the City to Puget over the Cedar Falls Line at the  
    Lake Youngs Substation or made available by Puget to the City  
    pursuant and subject to Section 3.2.  
  
    (d)  If any third party imposes transmission congestion clearing  
    charges on the City's Cedar Fall's Line, each party shall pay the  
    transmission congestion clearing charges that result from its  
    injections and withdrawals of electric power and energy on the Cedar  
    Falls Line.  
  
    DATED the day and year first above written.  
  
    PUGET SOUND POWER AND LIGHT COMPANY  
  
    By:  
  
    Title:  
  
    CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    By:  
  
    Title:  
  
    ATTEST:  
  
      City Comptroller  
  
       EXHIBIT A TO EXHIBIT B  
  
      PAGE 1  
  
      PAGE 4  
  
    [/Lake Youngs Transmission Ordinance EXHIBIT B, Exhibit A.doc]  
    8/14/03 9:27 AM  
  
    Exhibit C  
  
    CEDAR FALLS LINE - LAKE YOUNGS SUBSTATION TRANSFERS  
  
    PAYMENT AGREEMENT  
  
    This CEDAR FALLS LINE - LAKE YOUNGS SUBSTATION TRANSFERS PAYMENT  
    AGREEMENT (this "Payment Agreement") is entered into by and between  
    Puget Sound Energy, Inc. ("Puget") and The City of Seattle, acting by  
    and through its City Light Department ("City"), to set forth the  
    understanding between the parties with respect to payments that may  
    be required under the Exchange and Transfer Agreement, as amended (as  
    further described below) between the parties.  Each of Puget and the  
    City is sometimes referred to in this Payment Agreement as "Party";  
    both of Puget and the City are sometimes referred to together in this  
    Payment Agreement as "Parties."  
  
    RECITALS  
  
    A.  The City owns a 115-kV transmission line that extends from the  
    West Valley Highway in Renton to a point near the City's Cedar Falls  
    generating plant where the line interconnects with Puget's 115-kV  
    transmission line (the "Cedar Falls Line").  
  
    B.  The City and Puget are parties to the Exchange and Transfer  
    Agreement Between Puget Sound Power & Light Company and The City of  
    Seattle dated May 23, 1977, as amended by the Amendatory Agreement to  
    Exchange and Transfer Agreement Between Puget Sound Power & Light  
    Company and The City of Seattle dated October 23, 1980, Amendment No.  
    2 to Exchange and Transfer Agreement executed by the City on August  
    22, 1997 and by Puget on November 21, 1997 and Amendment No. 3 to  
    Exchange and Transfer Agreement executed by the City on _______,  
    2003, and by Puget on _________, 2003 ("Amendment No. 3") (as so  
    collectively amended, the "Amended Transfer Agreement").  
  
    C.  The Amended Transfer Agreement provides for mutually beneficial  
    rights with respect to the use of the Cedar Falls Line by Puget and  
    transfer of the City's power to the City's system over Puget's  
    transmission system.  
  
    D.  The transfer service provided by Puget to the City pursuant to  
    the Amended Transfer Agreement may be subject to charges pursuant to  
    Puget's applicable tariffs or other regulated rates.  
  
    E.  If the transfer service provided by the City to Puget pursuant to  
    the Amended Transfer Agreement, or the charges therefor, become  
    subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or  
    any other regulatory authority, such service may be subject to  
    charges pursuant to the City's applicable tariffs or other regulated  
    rates.  
  
    F.  The Parties acknowledge that the transfer service provided by  
    each Party pursuant to the Amended Transfer Agreement is comparable  
    in economic value to the transfer service provided by the other Party  
    pursuant to the Amended Transfer Agreement.  
  
    G.  The Parties desire to enter into this Payment Agreement to  
    ensure, to the maximum extent consistent with applicable regulation,  
    that the comparable value of the transfer service provided by each  
    Party to the other Party under the Amended Transfer Agreement is  
    reflected in the amounts charged, if any, by each Party to the other  
    Party for such service so long as the Amended Transfer Agreement is  
    not terminated pursuant to Section 1.1 thereof.  
  
    Now, therefore, the Parties agree as follows:  
  
    1.  If any regulatory authority having jurisdiction (other than the  
    City) requires the City to charge Puget pursuant to an applicable  
    tariff or rate schedule for the service provided under and prior to  
    any termination of the Amended Transfer Agreement pursuant to Section  
    1.1 thereof, then Puget shall be entitled to charge the City for the  
    service Puget provides to the City under and prior to such  
    termination the same amount that the City charges Puget for such  
    service.  
  
    2.  If any regulatory authority having jurisdiction requires Puget to  
    charge the City under Puget's Open Access Transmission Tariff or  
    other applicable tariff or rate schedule for the service provided  
    under and prior to any termination of the Amended Transfer Agreement  
    pursuant to Section 1.1 thereof, then the City shall be entitled to  
    charge Puget for the service the City provides to Puget under and  
    prior to such termination the same amount that Puget charges the City  
    for such service.  
  
    3.  Amounts payable (if any) by either Party to the other Party, as  
    contemplated in this Payment Agreement, during any billing period  
    shall be aggregated and the Parties shall discharge their obligations  
    to pay through netting.  Each Party reserves to itself all rights,  
    set-offs, counterclaims and other remedies and/or defenses to which  
    it is or may be entitled, arising from or out of the Amended Transfer  
    Agreement and applicable law.  
  
    4.  This Payment Agreement shall be effective at 2400 hours on the  
    later of (a) the date by which each of the Parties executes and  
    delivers this Payment Agreement and (b) the date by which the Seattle  
    City Council has authorized, approved or otherwise accepted this  
    Payment Agreement without change or new condition unacceptable to  
    either of the Parties, and shall expire on the effective date of any  
    termination of the Amended Transfer Agreement by either Party  
    pursuant to Section 1.1 thereof.  
  
    5.  Any inconsistency between this Payment Agreement and the Amended  
    Transfer Agreement shall be resolved in favor of this Payment  
    Agreement.  Except to the extent of such inconsistency, all of the  
    terms, conditions and covenants of the Amended Transfer Agreement  
    shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect.  
  
    6.  This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the state of  
    Washington without reference to its choice of law principles to the  
    contrary.  This Agreement may be amended or modified only by a  
    writing signed by both Parties.  
  
    THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    CITY LIGHT DEPARTMENT      PUGET SOUND ENERGY, INC.  
  
    By: ___________________________    By: __________________________  
  
    Name: ________________________      Name: ________________________  
  
    Title: _________________________      Title:  
    _________________________  
  
    Date signed: ____________________    Date signed: ___________________  
  
        EXHIBIT C  
