* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114672**   
**Ordinance Number: 121272**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Department of Executive Administration to close certain funds and subfunds; to transfer all unexpended and unencumbered balances and other assets and liabilities of such funds and subfunds; and abandoning from those funds and subfunds certain unexpended appropriation authority.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 15, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Drago)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 26, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 26, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 2, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** FUNDS, ACCOUNTING  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114672.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114672  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Department of Executive Administration  
    to close certain funds and subfunds; to transfer all unexpended and  
    unencumbered balances and other assets and liabilities of such funds  
    and subfunds; and abandoning from those funds and subfunds certain  
    unexpended appropriation authority.  
  
    WHEREAS, the Street Utility Repayment Fund (10510) was established by  
    Ordinance 118364; and  
  
    WHEREAS, all of the projects funded through the Street Utility  
    Repayment Fund have been completed leaving no assets, liabilities or  
    fund balance remaining in the Fund; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Seattle Center Redevelopment and Parks Community Center  
    - Seattle Center Subfund (34010) is a subfund of the Seattle Center  
    Redevelopment and Parks Community Center Fund, which was established  
    by Ordinance 115593; and  
  
    WHEREAS, all of the projects funded through the Seattle Center  
    Redevelopment and Parks Community Center - Seattle Center Subfund  
    have been completed, although assets, liabilities and fund balance  
    remain in the Subfund; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Seattle Center Redevelopment and Parks Community Center  
    - Parks Subfund (34020) is a subfund of the Seattle Center  
    Redevelopment and Parks Community Center Fund, which was established  
    by Ordinance 115593; and  
  
    WHEREAS, all of the projects funded through the Seattle Center  
    Redevelopment and Parks Community Center - Parks Subfund have been  
    completed, although assets, liabilities and fund balance remain in  
    the Subfund; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Low-Income Elderly and Handicapped Redevelopment Fund  
    (33010) was established by Ordinance 110124; and  
  
    WHEREAS, all of the projects funded through the Low-Income Elderly  
    and Handicapped Redevelopment Fund have been completed, leaving  
    unexpended appropriation, assets, and fund balance in the Fund; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Initiative 53 Planning Fund (10710) was established by  
    Ordinance 120218, as amended by Ordinances 120245 and 121011; and  
  
    WHEREAS, all of the projects funded through the Initiative 53  
    Planning Fund have been completed, although assets, fund balance and  
    unexpended appropriation authority remain in the Fund; NOW,  
    THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Street Utility Repayment Fund (10510), established by  
    Ordinance 118364, is hereby closed and eliminated effective January  
    1, 2003.  
  
    Section 2.  The Seattle Center Redevelopment and Parks Community  
    Center - Seattle Center Subfund (34010), established by Ordinance  
    115593, is hereby closed and eliminated effective January 1, 2003.  
    All assets, liabilities, and fund balance shown in the accounts for  
    that Subfund shall be transferred to the Seattle Center Subfund  
    (33810), a subfund of the 1999 Seattle Center/Community Centers Fund,  
    established by Ordinance 119522.  
  
    Section 3.  The Seattle Center Redevelopment and Parks Community  
    Center - Parks Subfund (34020), established by Ordinance 115593, is  
    here closed and eliminated effective January 1, 2003.  All assets,  
    liabilities, and fund balance shown in the accounts for that Subfund  
    shall be transferred to the Parks Community Center Subfund (33800), a  
    subfund of the 1999 Seattle Center/Community Centers Fund,  
    established by Ordinance 119522.  
  
    Section 4.  The Low-Income Elderly and Handicapped Housing  
    Redevelopment Fund, established by Ordinance 110124, is hereby closed  
    and eliminated effective January 1, 2003.  All assets and fund  
    balance remaining in the Fund shall be transferred to the Unlimited  
    Tax Levy General Obligation Bonds Interest and Redemption Subfund  
    (20140).  
  
    Section 5.  The Initiative 53 Planning Fund (10710), established by  
    Ordinance 120218, as amended, is hereby closed and eliminated  
    effective January 1, 2003.  Any assets remaining in the Fund shall be  
    transferred to the General Subfund (00100).  
  
    Section 6.  Any remaining appropriation authority from any fund or  
    subfund closed pursuant to Sections 1 through 5 above is hereby  
    abandoned.  
  
    Section 7.  Any acts consistent with and prior to the effective date  
    of this ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 8.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Sesinando Cantor  
  
    2002 Fund Closure Ord  
  
    June 26, 2003  
  
    Version #6  
  
    1  
