* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114681**   
**Ordinance Number: 121281**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 23.50.027 to provide for a special exception to size-of-use limits for retail sales and service uses in the Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center and correcting minor errors.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 22, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 1, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 1, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
**Note:** Costco expansion  
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 2, 2003   
**Committee:** Land Use   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, LAND-USE-PERMITS, BUSINESS-ENTERPRISES, RETAIL-TRADE, CONSTRUCTION, RENOVATION  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 120155  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114681.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114681  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Seattle  
    Municipal Code Section 23.50.027 to provide for a special exception  
    to size-of-use limits for retail sales and service uses in the  
    Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center and correcting minor errors.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Subsections A and B of Section 23.50.027 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 120155, are  
    amended and a new subsection E is added as follows:  
  
    23.50.027  Maximum size of nonindustrial use.  
  
    A.  Applicability.  
  
      1.  Except as provided in subsections B, C, and D and  
    E of this section below, the maximum size of use limits on  
    gross floor area specified in Chart A or, for lots located in  
    the Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center, Chart B of this  
    section shall apply to uses on a lot.  
  
     total gross floor area occupied by uses limited under the  
    respective charts  of this section shall not exceed an area equal to  
    the area of the lot in an IG1 zone, or two and one-half (2.5) times  
    the area of the lot in an IG2, IB or IC zone, or three (3) times the  
    lot area in IC zones in the South Lake Union Planning Area, as  
    identified in Exhibit 23.50A, with sixty-five (65) foot or eighty-  
    five (85) foot height limits. The maximum size of use limits  
    apply to both principal and accessory uses on a lot.  The limits  
    shall be applied separately to the two (2) ))categories of  
    uses listed in Chart A the respective charts of this  
    section.  The total gross floor area occupied by uses limited  
    under the respective charts of this section shall not exceed an area  
    equal to the area of the lot in an IG1 zone, or two and one-half  
    (2.5) times the area of the lot in an IG2, IB or IC zone, or three  
    (3) times the lot area in IC zones with sixty-five (65) foot or  
    eighty-five (85) foot height limits in the South Lake Union Planning  
    Area, as identified in Exhibit 23.50A.  
  
      2.  The maximum size of use limits shall not apply to the area  
    identified in Exhibit 23.50.027 A, provided that no single retail  
    establishment shall exceed fifty thousand (50,000) square feet in  
    size.  
  
    CHART A  
  
    INDUSTRIAL ZONES  
  
    Categories of Uses                             IG2  
    Subject to Size of Use       IG1              and IB               IC  
    Limits  
  
    Retail sales and            30,000            75,000             75,000  
    service or                 sq. ft.           sq. ft.             sq. ft.  
    entertainment except  
    spectator sports  
    facilities  
  
    Office                      50,000           100,000            N.M.S.L.  
                               sq. ft.           sq. ft.  
  
    N.M.S.L. = No Maximum Size Limits  
  
                                    CHART B  
  
    GENERAL INDUSTRIAL ZONES  
    WITHIN DUWAMISH M/I CENTER  
  
    Categories of Uses  
    Subject to Size of  
    Use Limits                       IG1                       IG2  
  
    Office uses                 50,000 sq. ft.           100,000 sq. ft.  
  
    Retail sales and            25,000 sq. ft.           50,000 sq. ft.  
    service (except for  
    restaurants and  
    drinking  
    establishments)  
  
    Restaurants                 5,000 sq. ft.             5,000 sq. ft.  
  
    Drinking                    3,000 sq. ft.             3,000 sq. ft.  
    establishments  
  
    Meeting halls                  N.M.S.L.            5((.)),000 sq. ft.  
  
    N.M.S.L. = No Maximum Size Limits  
  
    *  The maximum size limit for brew pubs applies to that portion of  
    the pub that is not used for brewing purposes.  
  
      B.  The following exceptions to the maximum size of use limits in  
    Chart A are allowed for a structure existing as of April 3, 1995; and  
    the following exceptions to maximum size of use limits in Chart B are  
    allowed for a structure existing as of September 1, 1999 in the  
    Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center:  
  
        1.  A use legally established as of April 3, 1995 that already  
    exceeds the maximum size of use limits listed in Chart A may  
    continue; and uses legally established as of September 1, 1999 that  
    then exceed the maximum size of use limits listed in Chart B may  
    continue.  
  
        2.  Subject to the limitations in subsection E of this  
    section, Tthe gross floor area of a use listed in  
    Chart A and legally established as of April 3, 1995 may be converted  
    to another category of use listed in Chart A provided that the  
    combined gross floor area devoted to uses listed in Chart A does not  
    exceed the total gross floor area of such uses legally established as  
    of April 3, 1995; and the gross floor area of a use listed in Chart B  
    and legally established as of September 1, 1999 may be converted to  
    another category of use listed in Chart B provided that the combined  
    gross floor area devoted to uses listed in Chart B does not exceed  
    the total gross floor area of such uses legally established as of  
    September 1, 1999.  
  
        3.  If fifty (50) percent or more of the gross floor area of the  
    structure has been legally established as of April 3, 1995 with a use  
    or uses listed in Chart A, those categories of uses may exceed the  
    size of use limits as follows:  
  
          a.  Uses listed in Chart A may expand within and occupy the  
    entire structure.  
  
          b.  The structure may be expanded by up to the following  
    amounts and the use or uses may be permitted to expand within and  
    occupy the entire structure:  
  
            (1)  IG1 Zone: Twenty (20) percent of the existing  
    structure's gross floor area or ten thousand (10,000) square feet,  
    whichever is less;  
  
            (2)  IG2, IB and IC Zones: Twenty (20) percent of the  
    existing structure's gross floor area or twenty thousand (20,000)  
    square feet, whichever is less.  
  
        4.  Subject to the limitations in subsection E of this  
    section, Iif fifty (50) percent or more of the  
    gross floor area of the structure has been legally established as of  
    September 1, 1999 with a use or uses listed in Chart B, those  
    categories of uses may exceed the size of use limits as follows:  
  
          a.  Uses listed in Chart B may expand within and occupy the  
    entire structure.  
  
          b.  The structure may be expanded by up to the following  
    amounts and the use or uses may be permitted to expand within and  
    occupy the entire structure, provided the structure has not  
    previously been expanded pursuant to subsection E of this section:  
  
            (1)  IG1 Zone: Twenty (20) percent of the existing  
    structure's gross floor area or ten thousand (10,000) square feet,  
    whichever is less;  
  
            (2)  IG2 Zone: Twenty (20) percent of the existing  
    structure's gross floor area or twenty thousand (20,000) square feet,  
    whichever is less.  
  
    * * *  
  
    E.  Special Exception to Maximum Size Limits for Retail Sales and  
    Service Use.  
  
      1.  Subject to the procedures set forth in Chapter 23.76,  
    Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, a retail sales and  
    service use within the Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center that  
    satisfies the criteria in this subsection may obtain a special  
    exception to expand its gross floor area by a maximum of thirty (30)  
    percent above the gross floor area being used for retail sales and  
    service use as of October 1, 2003.  The expansion in gross floor area  
    may occur one time only, either by addition to the existing building  
    or by construction of a replacement building, in which case the gross  
    floor area of the portion of the replacement building to be used for  
    retail sales and service use must not exceed the gross floor area of  
    the old building that was used for retail sales and service use as of  
    October 1, 2003, plus thirty (30) percent of that gross floor area.  
  
      2.  To be eligible for this special exception an applicant  
    must demonstrate to the Director's satisfaction that:  
  
        a.  The retail sales and service use was established on a  
    lot on or before January 1, 1985, the use has continued as an  
    established retail sales and service use since that date without  
    interruption, and it exceeded the size of use limits in Chart B as of  
    September 1, 1999;  
  
        b.  At least fifty (50) percent of the gross sales of the  
    retail sales and service use are to businesses or business  
    representatives; and  
  
        c.  The use has not previously converted any use listed in  
    Chart B to retail sales and service pursuant to subsection B2 of this  
    section or expanded the gross floor area of the retail sales and  
    service use pursuant to subsections B.4.a or B.4.b of this section.  
  
      3.  The Director shall consider the following and may impose  
    conditions to assure that these criteria are met:  
  
        a.  That well-defined boundaries, buffers, edge conditions  
    or circulation patterns will separate the use, if the gross floor  
    area of the retail sales and service use is expanded, from  
    surrounding industrial activity;  
  
        b.  That adverse impacts on nearby industrial uses are  
    minimized; and  
  
        c.  That the proposed expansion of the gross floor area of  
    the retail sales and service use will increase the capacity of the  
    existing use to support other businesses by providing goods and  
    services that are used by such businesses as well as by individual  
    consumers in the Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center.  
  
      4.  To be eligible for expansion onto a contiguous lot that  
    is not separated by a street, alley or other right-of-way, the  
    applicant also must demonstrate that:  
  
        a.  The established use on the contiguous lot is a use that  
    is permitted in commercial as well as industrial zones, and that use  
    has been established for at least ten (10) years prior to the date of  
    application; and  
  
        b.  The most recent business establishment on the  
    contiguous lot has ceased operations or moved to another location for  
    reasons unrelated to the proposed expansion of the retail sales and  
    service use that is applying for the special exception.  
  
      5.  Any retail sales and service use that has expanded its  
    gross floor area pursuant to a special exception granted pursuant to  
    this section may not thereafter convert any use listed in  
  
    Chart B to retail pursuant to subsection B2 of this section or  
    expanded the gross floor area of the retail sales and service use  
    pursuant to subsections B.4.a or B.4.b of this section.  
  
  
    Section 2.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be  
    separate and severable.  The invalidity of any particular provision  
    shall not affect the validity of any other provision.  
  
    Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
              _________________________________  
  
              President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Kristian F. Kofoed/kfk  
  
    industrial amendments ordinance.doc  
  
    August 26, 2003  
  
    version #3  
