* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114638**   
**Ordinance Number: 121233**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and ordering the payment thereof.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 21, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 30, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 29, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 21, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** FINANCE  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and  
    ordering the payment thereof.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    SECTION 1.  Payment of the sum of Twelve Million, Three Hundred Thirty  
    One Thousand, Four Hundred Eighty Six and 56/100 dollars  
    ($12,331,486.56) on Summit mechanical warrants numbered, 4000700258 -  
    4000703117 plus manual or cancellation issues for claims, plus  
    Electronic Financial Transactions (EFT) of Twenty Eight Million, Nine  
    Hundred Seven Thousand, One Hundred Eighty Three and 42/100 dollars  
    ($28,907,183.42) are presented for ratification by the City Council  
    per Chapter 42.23 RCA.  
  
    SECTION 2. That any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    SECTION 3. This ordinance, being an ordinance required for the payment  
    of salaries or current expenses, shall take effect and be in force  
    immediately upon its approval, if approved by the Mayor; otherwise it  
    shall take effect at the time it shall become a law under the  
    provisions of the City Charter.  
  
    Passed by the City Council on the 21h day of July. 2003 and signed by  
    me in open session in authentication of its passage this July 21,  
    2003.  
    ___________________________________  
    President ___________ of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___.  
    ___________________________________  
    Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___  
    ___________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    July 21,2003  
