* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114618**   
**Ordinance Number: 121210**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and ordering the payment thereof.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 7, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 15, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 15, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 7, 2003   
**Committee:** Full Council   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** FINANCE  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE appropriating money to pay certain audited claims and  
    ordering the payment thereof.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    SECTION 1.  Payment of the sum of Ten Million, Eight Hundred Seventy  
    Seven Thousand, Three Hundred Thirty Eight and 90/100 dollars  
    ($10,877,338.90) on Summit mechanical warrants numbered, 4000695600 -  
    4000696150 plus manual or cancellation issues for claims, plus  
    Electronic Financial Transactions (EFT) of Fifteen Million, Seven  
    Hundred Six Thousand, Seventy and 65/100 dollars ($15,706,070.65) are  
    presented for ratification by the City Council per Chapter 42.23 RCA.  
  
     SECTION 2. That any act consistent with the authority and prior to  
    the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    SECTION 3. This ordinance, being an ordinance required for the payment  
    of salaries or current expenses, shall take effect and be in force  
    immediately upon its approval, if approved by the Mayor; otherwise it  
    shall take effect at the time it shall become a law under the  
    provisions of the City Charter.  
  
    Passed by the City Council on the 7h day of July. 2003 and signed by  
    me in open session in authentication of its passage this July 7, 2003.  
  
      ___________________________________  
      President ___________ of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___.  
      ___________________________________  
  
      Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___  
      ___________________________________  
      City Clerk  
