* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114622**   
**Ordinance Number: 121228**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Fleets & Facilities Department; authorizing the sale of certain real property, described in Section 1 below, and execution of a Real Estate Transfer Agreement and Quit Claim Deed in connection therewith, to the Seattle Girls' School, a non-profit 501(c)(3) charitable institution; designating the disposition of sales proceeds; and ratifying and confirming prior actions.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 21, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 30, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 29, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 7, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGP   
  
**Index Terms:** SALES, CENTRAL-AREA, FEMALES, CHILDREN, EDUCATION, SCHOOLS, YOUTHS, FLEETS-AND-FACILITIES-DEPARTMENT  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114622.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114622  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Fleets & Facilities Department;  
    authorizing the sale of certain real property, described in Section 1  
    below, and execution of a Real Estate Transfer Agreement and Quit  
    Claim Deed in connection therewith, to the Seattle Girls' School, a  
    non-profit 501(c)(3) charitable institution; designating the  
    disposition of sales proceeds; and ratifying and confirming prior  
    actions.  
  
    WHEREAS, the real property, identified in Section 1 below, is excess  
    to the needs of the Fleets & Facilities Department; and  
  
    WHEREAS, after being notified of the potential availability of the  
    property identified in Section 1 below, no other City department or  
    other government agency has requested jurisdiction or has proposed a  
    public use of any of the property; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Fleets & Facilities Department issued a Request for  
    Proposals (RFP) related to  
  
    the possible sale of the property on September 9, 2002; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the proposal submitted by the Seattle Girls' School was  
    selected by a Developer  
  
     Selection Committee to be granted the opportunity to purchase the  
    property from the  
  
      City; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the proposed sale of the property has been reviewed by Fleets  
    & Facilities Department's Real Estate Services and the City's Real  
    Estate Oversight Committee approved the sale; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1. The real property legally described as follows:  
  
    That portion of Lots 8, 9 and 11, Block 12, Smith's Supplemental Plat  
    of Block 12, Burkes 2nd Addition to Seattle, according to the plat  
    thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, Page 157, in King County,  
    Washington, lying easterly of the easterly line of Martin Luther King,  
    Jr. Way.  
  
    is hereby declared to be surplus.  
  
    Section 2.  The Fleets & Facilities Director ("Director") is hereby  
    authorized to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of The City of  
    Seattle, a Real Estate Transfer Agreement ("Agreement") in  
    substantially the form attached hereto as "Exhibit A" and, as part of  
    the Closing for the conveyance contemplated herein, a Quit Claim Deed  
    in substantially the form attached hereto as "Exhibit B."  
  
    Section 3.  Proceeds from the sale authorized herein shall be used,  
    first, to reimburse  
  
    costs incurred and paid by the Fleets & Facilities Department in  
    connection with such sale.  
  
    The remainder of such proceeds, if any, shall be deposited in the  
    Unrestricted Account of the  
  
    Cumulative Reserve Subfund (00164), in accordance with SMC 5.80.030,  
    to be appropriated  
  
    consistent with Council Resolution 30379.  
  
    Section 4.  In the event the sale to the Purchaser contemplated by  
    this ordinance is not closed within sixty (60) calendar days after the  
    effective date of this ordinance, the authority granted by this  
    ordinance shall terminate.  
  
    Section 5.  Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 6.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachments:  
  
    Exhibit A - Real Estate Transfer Agreement  
  
    Exhibit B - Quit Claim Deed  
  
    John Kennedy/et  
  
    SeaGirlsSchool-Ord.doc  
  
    02/25/2003  
  
    version #2  
  
    PRELIMINARY REPORT  
  
    EVALUATION OF REUSE & DISPOSAL OPTIONS FOR  
  
    PMA No. 4319 - Martin Luther King, Jr. Way  
  
  
    Resolution 29799 directs that the Executive is to make its  
    recommendations on the reuse or disposal of excess property on a case  
    by case basis, using the Procedures for Evaluation of the Reuse and  
    Disposal of the City's Real Property adopted by that resolution.  
    Additionally, the Resolution identifies guidelines, which are to be  
    considered in making a recommendation.  This report addresses each of  
    the guidelines outlined in Resolution 29799 in support of the  
    recommendation.  
  
    Property Management Area:  399 Martin Luther King, Jr. Way,  
    Eastside of the street between S. Jackson and S. Main Streets  
  
  
  
  
    BACKGROUND INFORMATION  
  
  
  
  
    Legal Description:  That portion of Lots 8, 9 and 11, Block 12,  
    Smith's Supplemental Plat of Block 12, Burkes 2nd Addition to Seattle,  
    according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, Page 157,  
    in King County, Washington, lying easterly of the easterly line of  
    Martin Luther King, Jr. Way.  
  
    Physical Description and Related Factors:  The site is irregular  
    in shape. The southern portion comprised of Lots 8 and 9 is roughly in  
    the shape of a rectangle whose left border has been shaved off by the  
    MLK right-of-way.  The northern portion which is comprised of Lot 11  
    is shaped like a narrow scalene triangle with its hypotenuse along  
    MLK, its northerly endpoint at S Main Street and its eastern line  
    running the length of western border of Lot 12. When combined these  
    portions of three platted lots have a total lot area of 7,165 SF.  The  
    parcel slopes from the west up to the east and from the south up to  
    the north at grades between 20% to 30%.  With the exception of the  
    southwest corner that has been cleared and graded to level packed dirt  
    approximately two feet above grade, the remainder of the property is  
    covered with high grass and blackberry bushes.  The lone tree on the  
    site is a thirty-foot Big Leaf maple that is situated in Lot 9, about  
    12 feet from the eastern boundary.  The parcel measures 81.99 feet  
    along its southern boundary that adjoins the land leased by the  
    Seattle Girls' School for its educational facilities. It measures  
    235.20 feet along its western border that fronts on Martin Luther King  
    Jr. Way S. Its borders with Lot 12 measure 110 feet on the east and 40  
    feet on the north.  The eastern boundary of Lots 8 and 9 measures 80  
    feet.  It is located in an area with mostly single-family residences  
    of various styles, shapes, and value.  Its King County Tax Parcel  
    Identification Number is 783380-0040.  
  
    GUIDELINE A:  CONSISTENCY  
  
    The analysis should consider the purpose for which the property was  
    originally acquired, funding sources used to acquire the property,  
    terms and conditions of original acquisition, the title or deed  
    conveying the property, or any other contract or instrument by which  
    the City is bound or to which the property is subject, and City, state  
    or federal ordinances, statues and regulations.  
  
    The City of Seattle acquired those portions of Lots 8 and 9 by  
    Warranty Deed from Maria Hagenaars, dated July 18, 1956.  The south 40  
    feet of Lot 11 was acquired by Warranty Deed, dated July 16, 1954,  
    from Fred D. and Irene Powell. The north 70 feet of Lot 11 was  
    acquired by condemnation under Ordinance No. 84354 and King County  
    Superior Court Cause No. 499340, Verdict No. 72A, dated April 20,  
    1957. In each instance, the properties were accepted by the City  
    Council for either street or general municipal purposes.  
  
  
  
    Guideline B:   Compatibility and Suitability  
  
  
    The recommendation should reflect an assessment of the potential  
    for use of the property in support of adopted Neighborhood Plans, as  
    or in support of low-income housing, in support of economic  
    development, in support of affordable housing, for park or open space;  
    in support of Sound Transit Link Light Rail station area development;  
    as or in support of child care facilities, and in support of other  
    priorities reflected in adopted City policies.  
  
    Context  
  
    The property is located within the City of Seattle, and also within  
    the boundaries of the Central Area Neighborhood Planning Area. Its  
    irregular shape and adjacency to Martin Luther King, Jr. Way are  
    qualities shared with a number of excess parcels that remained after  
    the laying out and widening of the thoroughfare in the 1950s.  The  
    property was not identified by any neighborhood or community group as  
    being desirable or needed for the development or implementation of  
    Neighborhood Plans.  The property is also not particularly suited to  
    meet any City needs, as indicated by the lack of interest in the  
    property when it was circulated in May 2002.  The terrain and size of  
    the site does not lend itself to the construction of low-income  
    housing or affordable housing because it is not located within a high-  
    density SF zone area. Neither the Parks Department nor the  
    neighborhood community has expressed interest in dedicating the  
    property to parks or open space use. The property is located along the  
    Sound Transit Light rail alignment; however, that agency has indicated  
    that the subject property is not needed for staging or right-of-way of  
    the south line.  
  
    Range of Options  
  
    The range of options considered included sale by public bid, sale  
    through a Request for Proposal process, negotiated sale, long-term  
    ground lease, or retention by the City.  Given that no City department  
    identified any current or future use for the property, and given the  
    location of the property, neither the long-term ground lease or  
    retention of the property was considered in the best interests of the  
    City.  Since there were several parties interested in acquiring the  
    property, the decision was made to offer the property through the  
    Request for Proposal (RFP) process. The RFP procedure allowed for a  
    selection of a purchaser by a Selection Committee consisting of City  
    staff and community interests.  
  
  
  
    Guideline C:  Other Factors  
  
  
    The recommendation should consider the highest and best use of the  
    property, compatibility of the proposed use with the physical  
    characteristics of the property and with surrounding uses, timing and  
    term of the proposed use, appropriateness of the consideration to be  
    received, unique attributes that make the property hard to replace,  
    potential for consolidation with adjacent public property to  
    accomplish future goals and objectives, conditions in the real estate  
    market, and known environmental factors that make affect the value of  
    the property.  
  
  
  
    Highest and Best Use  
  
  
    The highest and best use is for the development of single family  
    housing or other uses that are permitted as a conditional use by the  
    land use code in a Single Family 5000 zone.  This 7,165 square foot  
    site supports either single-family development or a combination of  
    other uses allowed by the code. Additional DCLU requirements could  
    affect the ultimate development capacity of the land.  
  
    Compatibility with the physical characteristics  
  
    The site is slightly sloped upward to the east and the north from  
    Martin Luther King, Jr. Way.  There is 235 feet of frontage and open  
    legal access off MLK.  Lots to the north and east of the subject  
    property are zoned SF 5000 and present an interesting mix of single-  
    family residential styles. Across MLK to the west, the Lowrise-2  
    zoning allows a variety of 2-3 story multifamily housing types with  
    less emphasis on ground-related unit. Parcels that adjoin S. Jackson  
    Street are zoned NC2-40 (Neighborhood Commercial 2- 40 foot height  
    limit) and generally and support a variety of small businesses, mixed  
    uses, and church-related activities.  
  
       
  
    Compatibility with surrounding uses  
  
  
    The Seattle Girls' School intends to expand their current facility  
    located immediately south of the City property. The school expansion  
    plans have been well received by the immediate neighbors as well as  
    the broader community.  
  
       
  
    Potential for Consolidation with adjacent public property  
  
  
    There are several City-owned properties in the immediate area.  
    These other properties are comprised of remainder parcels from road  
    construction similar to this property.  Consolidation with these  
    parcels is not feasible.  
  
    Timing and Term of Proposed Use  
  
    The Seattle Girls' School intends to begin expansion of their  
    facilities as soon as the sale is completed. FFD is requiring that the  
    sale be completed within sixty (60) days of Council approval.   
  
    Appropriateness of the consideration  
  
  
    The property will be conveyed to the Seattle Girls' School based on  
    the appraised value of $144,000.  The current assessed value is  
    $124,000.  
  
  
  
    Conditions in the real estate market  
  
  
    The real estate market in Seattle remains healthy.  Interest rates  
    have declined but real property is maintaining its value while the  
    rate of appreciation has slowed only moderately.  The demand for raw  
    land has sustained its value.  
  
  
  
    Known environmental factors:  
  
    FFD performed a walkaround inspection of the property.  Departmental  
    files confirm that, with the exception of the sloping portions of the  
    site, there are no known environmental factors or conditions that  
    prevent the sale of this property.  
  
    Guideline D:  Sale  
  
    The recommendation should evaluate the potential for selling the  
    property to non-City public entities and to members of the general  
    public.  
  
    The Fleets & Facilities Departments has records of several private  
    parties/entities  expressing interest in obtaining this property.  
    Sale through the RFP process provided a fair and equitable process for  
    identifying a suitable purchaser for the site.  Notice of the RFP  
    process and timelines for submission of proposals was sent to all  
    property owners within 300 feet of the property and was appropriately  
    advertised in the official City newspaper as well as community  
    newspapers.   
  
    RECOMMENDATION  
  
  
    The Real Estate Services Division recommends that this property be  
    sold to Seattle Girls'School as selected by the RFP Proposal Selection  
    Committee.  
  
    PROPERTY REVIEW PROCESS DETERMINATION FORM  
    Property  
    Name:  
    399 Martin Luther King, Jr. Way  
  
    Address:  
    399 Martin Luther King, Jr. Way    
    PMA ID:  
    4319  
           Subject Parcel  
    #:  
    1742, 1743  
    Dept./Dept  
    ID:  
    FFD  
    Current Use:  
    vacant  
    Area (Sq.  
    Ft.):  
    7,165  
    Zoning:  
    SF 5000  
    Est. Value:  
    $144,000  
    (appraised)  
    Assessed  
    Value:  
    $124,000  
    PROPOSED USES AND RECOMMENDED USE  
    Department/Governmental  
    Agencies:  
    Proposed Use:  
    None  
  
    Other Parties wishing to  
    acquire:  
    Proposed Use:  
    Seattle Girls School (SGS)  
    wishes to acquire.  
    Expansion of school facilities.  
    RES'S RECOMMENDED USE:  Sell to SGS as selection from RFP process.  
    PROPERTY REVIEW PROCESS DETERMINATION (circle appropriate response)  
    1.)  Is more than one City dept/Public Agency wishing  
    to acquire?  
    No /  
    Yes  
    15  
    2.) Are there any pending community proposals for  
    Reuse/ Disposal?  
    No /  
    Yes  
    10  
    3.) Have citizens, community groups and/or other  
    interested parties contacted the City regarding  
    any of the  proposed options?  
    No /  
    Yes  
    10  
    4.) Will consideration be other than cash?  
    No /  
    Yes  
    10  
    5.) Is Sale or Trade to a private party being  
    recommended?  
    No /  
    Yes  
    25  
    6.) Will the proposed use require changes in  
    zoning/other reg's?  
    No /  
    Yes  
    20  
    7.) Is the estimated Fair Market Value between  
    $250,000-$1,000,000?  
    No /  
    Yes  
    10  
    8.) Is the estimated Fair Market Value over  
    $1,000,000?  
    No/  
    Yes  
    45  
                              Total Number of Points  
    Awarded for "Yes" Responses:  
  
    25  
    Property Classification for purposes of Disposal review:     Simple  
    /   Complex (circle one)  (a score of 45+ points results in  
    "Complex" classification)  
  
    Signature:  John Kennedy               Department:  FFD  
    Date:  03/11/2003  
  
    Attachment 1  
  
    Exhibit A  
  
    REAL ESTATE TRANSFER AGREEMENT  
  
      This Real Estate Transfer Agreement ("Agreement") is made as of this  
    ____ day of _______, 2003, by and between the Seattle Girls' School, a  
    non-profit 501(c)(3) charitable institution ("Purchaser") and the City  
    of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("City").  
  
    Recitals  
  
      A.  City is the owner of that certain real property situated in King  
    County, Washington, described below.  The real property, together with  
    all improvements and appurtenances thereto, is hereafter referred to  
    as the "Property."  
  
      B.   The Purchaser, responding to a Request for Proposals (RFP)  
    issued by the City on September 9, 2002, was selected by a City  
    Developer Selection Committee to be granted the opportunity to  
    purchase the Property from the City.  
  
    C.  City desires to sell and the Purchaser desires to acquire the  
    Property, subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions  
    set forth in this Agreement.  
  
    Agreement  
  
    1.   Conveyance:  Purchaser agrees to purchase, and the City agrees to  
    sell and convey, upon the terms and conditions contained herein, the  
    Property, which is located in the central area of the City of Seattle  
    and on the east side of Martin Luther King, Jr. Way South between  
    South Main Street and South Jackson Street in the City of Seattle, in  
    King County, State of Washington, legally described as follows:  
  
    That portion of Lots 8, 9 and 11, Block 12, Smith's Supplemental Plat  
    of Block 12, Burkes 2nd Addition to Seattle, according to the plat  
    thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, Page 157, in King County,  
    Washington, lying easterly of the easterly line of Martin Luther King,  
    Jr. Way.  
  
    by Quit Claim Deed in the form attached hereto and incorporated herein  
    by this reference  
  
    2.   Purchase Price:  The total purchase price is One Hundred Forty-  
    four Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($144,000.00).  
  
    3.   Terms of Payment:  At Closing, Purchaser shall pay to the City of  
    Seattle a total down payment of Fourteen Thousand Four Hundred Dollars  
    and no/100 ($14,400.00), which shall include the previously paid Two  
    Thousand Dollars and no/100 ($2,000.00).  The balance of the Purchase  
    Price, One Hundred Twenty-nine Thousand Six Hundred Dollars and no/100  
    ($129,600.00), together with simple interest at six percent on the  
    declining balance, shall be paid in five consecutive annual payments  
    of Twenty-five Thousand Nine Hundred Twenty Dollars ($25,920.00) plus  
    accrued interest to the date of payment.  The annual payment due date  
    shall be the anniversary of the Closing date.  
  
      4.   Closing Date:  The date of Closing will be by mutual agreement  
    but in any case on or by  
  
    the sixtieth  (60th) day after the effective date of the City  
    ordinance authorizing execution of this Agreement.  
  
    5.   Costs:  Purchaser shall be responsible for the costs of recording  
    the Quit Claim Deed and any associated real estate excise taxes.  
    Except as specifically provided herein, neither party shall be  
    responsible for paying any costs incurred by the other party in  
    connection with this Agreement or otherwise.  Any and all obligations  
    hereunder for payments to be made by either party that are not made at  
    or before Closing shall survive Closing.  
  
    6.   Condition of Property:  The Property is to be conveyed AS-IS,  
    WHERE-IS, WITH-ALL-FAULTS, AND WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY WHATSOEVER,  
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO ITS CONDITION, ENVIRONMENTAL OR OTHERWISE,  
    OR ITS SUITABILITY OR SUFFICIENCY FOR THE PURCHASER'S INTENDED USES  
    AND PURPOSES.   The City makes no representation or warranty  
    whatsoever as to the condition of the Property to be conveyed to  
    Purchaser under this Agreement.  
  
    7.   Acknowledgement, Release, & Indemnification Commitment Regarding  
    Condition of Property:  Purchaser acknowledges that adverse physical,  
    economic or other conditions (including without limitation, adverse  
    environmental soils and ground-water conditions), either latent or  
    patent, may exist on the Property and assumes the City's  
    responsibility for all environmental conditions of the Property, known  
    or unknown, including but not limited to responsibility, if any, for  
    investigation, removal or remediation actions relating to the  
    presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance or  
    other environmental contamination relating to the Property.  
    Purchaser also releases and shall indemnify, defend, and hold the City  
    and its past, present and future officials, employees, and agents,  
    harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, penalties,  
    fees, damages, losses, expenses (including but not limited to  
    regulatory agencies, attorneys, contractors and consultants' fees and  
    costs), and liabilities arising out of, or in any way connected with,  
    the condition of the Property including but not limited to any alleged  
    or actual past, present or future presence, release or threatened  
    release of any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the  
    Property, or any portion thereof or improvement thereon, from any  
    cause whatsoever; it being intended that Purchaser shall so indemnify  
    the City and such personnel without regard to any fault or  
    responsibility of the City or the Purchaser.  The obligation to  
    complete all environmental investigation, removal or remediation of  
    the Property and the acknowledgement, release and indemnification  
    touch and concern the Property, restrict the use of the Property,  
    constitute an assessment against the Property and are intended to run  
    with the land and bind Purchaser and Purchaser's heirs, successors and  
    assigns, and inure to the benefit of the City and its successors and  
    assigns.  
  
    For purposes of this section, the term "Hazardous Substance" shall  
    mean petroleum products and compounds containing them; flammable  
    materials; radioactive materials; polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs")  
    and compounds containing them; asbestos or asbestos-containing  
    materials in any friable form; underground or above-ground storage  
    tanks; or any substance or material that is now or hereafter becomes  
    regulated under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule,  
    regulation, or other law relating to environmental protection,  
    contamination or cleanup.  
  
    The Purchaser's release shall include both claims by the Purchaser  
    against the City and cross-claims against the City by the Purchaser  
    based upon claims made against the Purchaser by any and all third  
    parties. The obligation to indemnify and defend shall include, but not  
    be limited to, any liability of the Purchaser to any and all federal,  
    state or local regulatory agencies or other persons or entities for  
    remedial action costs and natural resources damages claims.  The  
    obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or  
    remediation of the Property and the acknowledgement, release and  
    indemnification touch and concern the Property, restrict the use of  
    the Property, constitute an assessment against the Property and are  
    intended to run with the land and bind the Purchaser and the  
    Purchaser's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of  
    the City and its successors and assigns.  This release means that the  
    Purchaser accepts the Property "as-is, where-is and with-all-faults,"  
    and that the Purchaser assumes all responsibilities of the City to  
    investigate, remove and remediate any environmental conditions on the  
    Property and has no recourse against the City or any of its officers,  
    employees or agents for any claim or liability with respect to the  
    Property.  
  
    The City shall have the right to defend itself and seek from the  
    Purchaser recovery of any damages, liabilities, settlement awards and  
    defense costs and expenses incurred by the City if the Purchaser does  
    not accept unconditionally the City's tender to the Purchaser of the  
    duty to investigation, remove and/or remediate environmental  
    conditions on the Property and/or defend and indemnify the City  
    against any such claim, suit, demand, penalty, fee, damages, losses,  
    cost or expense.  This section shall apply regardless of whether or  
    not the Purchaser is culpable, negligent or in violation of any law,  
    ordinance, rule or regulation.  This section is not intended, nor  
    shall it, release, discharge or affect any rights or causes of action  
    that the City or the Purchaser may have against any other person or  
    entity, except as otherwise expressly stated herein, and each of the  
    parties reserves all such rights including, but not limited to, claims  
    for contribution or cost recovery relating to any Hazardous Substance  
    in, on, under or emanating from the Property.  
  
    8.   Default:  
  
    a. Purchaser's Remedies. In the event the City defaults in any of its  
    material obligations under this Agreement, Purchaser, at Purchaser's  
    option, may (1) seek to specifically enforce this Agreement, or (2)  
    terminate this Agreement by written notice to City.  
  
    b.  City's Remedies. In the event Purchaser defaults in any of its  
    material obligations under this Agreement, the City, at the City's  
    option, may (1) seek to specifically enforce this Agreement, or (2)  
    terminate this Agreement by written notice to Purchaser.  
  
    9.   Notices:  All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in  
    writing and shall either be delivered in person, sent through the  
    United States Postal Service by certified mail, postage prepaid,  
    return receipt requested, or delivered via an overnight courier  
    service, and shall be deemed received on the sooner of actual receipt  
    or three (3) days after deposit in the mail or delivery to the courier  
    service if addressed to City or to Purchaser, as the case may be, at  
    the address set forth and with copies as specified below:  
  
      Notices to City:    John Kennedy  
  
              The City of Seattle  
  
              Fleets & Facilities Department  
  
              14th Floor, Alaska Building  
  
              618 Second Avenue  
  
              Seattle, Washington 98104  
  
    Notices to Purchaser:  Sharon Hammel, Vice-Chair Board of Trustees  
  
              Seattle Girls' School  
  
              P.O. Box 22576  
  
    2706 South Jackson Street  
  
              Seattle, Washington  98144  
  
    10.   Amendments: Amendments to this Agreement may be made only after  
    written approval by the City and by Purchaser.  Amendments that are  
    not fairly within the scope of the authorizing ordinance, as  
    determined by the City Attorney's Office, shall not be effective  
    unless authorized by separate ordinance.  
  
    11.   Time:  Time is the essence with respect to all provisions of  
    this Agreement.  
  
    12.   Force Majeure:  In the event that either party is unable to  
    perform any or all of its obligations under this Agreement because of  
    a natural disaster, action or decree of a governmental entity, or  
    labor dispute, the party that has been so affected immediately shall  
    give notice to the other party and shall do everything reasonably  
    possible to resume performance.  In the event that any such  
    contingency occurs and notice is so given, the party that has had its  
    performance affected shall have a reasonable time in which to resume  
    performance, and nonperformance for a reasonable period of time shall  
    not constitute a default under this Agreement.  
  
    13.   Governing Law; Venue:  This Agreement shall be governed by the  
    laws of the State of Washington.  The venue for any action hereunder  
    shall be in Superior Court of the State of Washington for King County.  
  
    14.   Attorneys' Fees:  In the event of any litigation including,  
    without limitation, bankruptcy, appellate, or arbitration proceedings  
    between the parties arising out of or in connection with this  
    Agreement, the substantially non-prevailing party shall pay all  
    reasonable costs incurred by the substantially prevailing party  
    including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees of the  
    substantially prevailing party.   If City prevails, its attorneys'  
    fees shall be computed on the basis of those of a private attorney in  
    downtown Seattle who practices in a firm having at least as many  
    attorneys as are employed in the Seattle City Attorney's Office, and  
    who has experience comparable to the attorney representing the City.  
  
    15.   Singular and Plural Terms:  In this Agreement the use of the  
    singular shall include the plural; and pronouns of any gender or none  
    shall include the masculine, feminine, and neutral, as the context may  
    require.  
  
    16.   No Real Estate Broker or Agent Involved:  The parties warrant  
    and covenant to each other (said warranty and covenant surviving  
    Closing) that neither has involved any real estate agent or broker in  
    this transaction and that no commission is due to any real estate  
    agent or broker as a result of this transaction.  
  
    17.   Agreement Survives Conveyance; Indemnification Obligation  
    Survives Conveyance or Termination:  It is the intent of the parties  
    hereto that the provisions of this Agreement, including but not  
    limited to its representations, warranties, waiver and release, and  
    indemnification obligation shall survive the Closing of this  
    conveyance and the delivery of any deed hereunder, and shall not be  
    merged by or merge into any deed transferring any interest in the  
    Property or any portion thereof; and that no such deed shall be deemed  
    to affect or impair, in any way, any of the provisions, conditions,  
    covenants, or terms of this Agreement, except as otherwise provided in  
    this Property.  
  
    18.   Binding Effect on Heirs, Successors & Assigns:  This Agreement  
    shall be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs,  
    executors, administrators, successors and assigns.  
  
    19.   Entire Understanding:  This Agreement and the Attachments hereto  
    constitute the entire Agreement of the parties with respect to the  
    subject matter hereof and supersede any and all prior agreements or  
    understandings with respect to such matters.  
  
    IN WITNESS HEREOF the parties have signed this Real Estate Transfer  
    Agreement as of the date first stated above.  
  
    The City of Seattle          Seattle Girls' School  
  
    By:              By:  
  
          John Franklin, Director              Karen E. Lane, Chair  
  
          Fleets and Facilities Department        Board of Trustees  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
      ) ss  
  
    COUNTY OF KING          )  
  
      On this         day of        , 2003, before me, the undersigned, a  
    Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned  
    and sworn, personally appeared John Franklin, to me known to be the  
    Fleets and Facilities Director of The City of Seattle, the municipal  
    corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and  
    acknowledged said Agreement to be the free and voluntary act and deed  
    of said municipal corporation, for the uses and purposes therein  
    mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said  
    Agreement.  
  
      WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in  
    this certificate above written.  
  
    (Signature)              (Print Name)  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the  
  
    State of  
  
    residing at  
  
    My commission expires:  
  
                  (Seal)==>  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
      ) ss  
  
    COUNTY OF KING          )  
  
      On this         day of         , 2003, before me, the undersigned, a  
    Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned  
    and sworn, personally appeared Karen E. Lane to me known to be the  
    individual who executed the within and foregoing Agreement, and  
    acknowledged said Agreement to be her/his free and voluntary act and  
    deed for the uses and purposes therein mentioned.  
  
      WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in  
    this certificate above written.  
  
    (Signature)              (Print Name)  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of  
  
    Washington residing at Seattle.  
  
    My commission expires:    .  
  
    (Seal)==>  
  
    Attachment:  Quit Claim Deed  
  
    Exhibit B  
  
    After recording, return to:  
  
    The City of Seattle- FFD  
  
    618 2nd Ave. 14th Floor  
  
    Seattle, WA 98104  
  
    QUIT CLAIM DEED  
  
    (Unimproved Property)  
  
    Reference number of related documents:  
  
    Grantor:  The City of Seattle  
  
    Grantee:  Seattle Girls' School  
  
    Legal Description:  
  
    1.  Abbreviated Form: Ptn. Lots 8, 9 & 11, Block 12, Smith's  
    Supplemental Plat of Block 12, Burke's 2nd Addition to Seattle, Vol.  
    2, pg. 157.  
  
    2.  Additional legal description is on Page 1 of document.  
  
    Assessor's Property Tax Parcel Account Number(s):  783380-0040  
  
    Grant.  The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation  
    ("Grantor"), hereby conveys and quit claims to Seattle Girls' School,  
    a non-profit 501(c)(3) charitable institution ("Grantee"), for and in  
    consideration of the sum of One Hundred Forty-four Thousand Dollars  
    ($144,000.00), and subject to the COVENANT set forth below that  
    certain real property located in the City of Seattle, King County,  
    Washington, and legally described as follows:  
  
    That portion of Lots 8, 9 and 11, Block 12, Smith's Supplemental Plat  
    of Block 12, Burkes 2nd Addition to Seattle, according to the plat  
    thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, Page 157, in King County,  
    Washington, lying easterly of the easterly line of Martin Luther King,  
    Jr. Way.  
  
    COVENANT REGARDING ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS  
  
    The Property described herein is conveyed AS-IS, WHERE-IS, WITH-ALL-  
    FAULTS, AND WITHOUT ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS  
    OR IMPLIED, AS TO ITS CONDITION, ENVIRONMENTAL OR OTHERWISE, OR ITS  
    SUITABILITY OR SUFFICIENCY FOR THE GRANTEE'S INTENDED USES AND  
    PURPOSES.    Grantee acknowledges that adverse physical, economic or  
    other conditions (including without limitation, adverse environmental  
    soils and ground-water conditions), either latent or patent, may exist  
    on the Property and assumes Grantor's responsibility for all  
    environmental conditions of the Property, known or unknown, including  
    but not limited to responsibility, if any, for investigation, removal  
    or remediation actions relating to the presence, release or threatened  
    release of any Hazardous Substance or other environmental  
    contamination relating to the Property.   Grantee also releases and  
    shall indemnify, defend, and hold Grantor and its past, present and  
    future officials, employees, and agents, harmless from and against any  
    and all claims, demands, penalties, fees, damages, losses, expenses  
    (including but not limited to regulatory agencies, attorneys,  
    contractors and consultants' fees and costs), and liabilities arising  
    out of, or in any way connected with, the condition of the Property  
    including but not limited to any alleged or actual past, present or  
    future presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous  
    Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property, or any portion  
    thereof or improvement thereon, from any cause whatsoever; it being  
    intended that Grantee shall so indemnify Grantor and such personnel  
    without regard to any fault or responsibility of Grantor or Grantee.  
    The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or  
    remediation of the Property and the acknowledgement, release and  
    indemnification touch and concern the Property, restrict the use of  
    the Property, constitute an assessment against the Property and are  
    intended to run with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs,  
    successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of Grantor and its  
    successors and assigns.  
  
    For purposes of this COVENANT, the term "Hazardous Substance" shall  
    mean petroleum products and compounds containing them; flammable  
    materials; radioactive materials; polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs")  
    and compounds containing them; asbestos or asbestos-containing  
    materials in any friable form; underground or above-ground storage  
    tanks; or any substance or material that is now or hereafter becomes  
    regulated under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule,  
    regulation, or other law relating to environmental protection,  
    contamination or cleanup.  
  
    Grantee's release shall include both claims by Grantee against Grantor  
    and cross-claims against Grantor by Grantee based upon claims made  
    against Grantee by any and all third parties. The obligation to  
    indemnify and defend shall include, but not be limited to, any  
    liability of Grantor to any and all federal, state or local regulatory  
    agencies or other persons or entities for remedial action costs and  
    natural resources damages claims.  The obligation to complete all  
    environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property  
    and the acknowledgement, release and indemnification touch and concern  
    the Property, restrict the use of the Property, constitute an  
    assessment against the Property and are intended to run with the land  
    and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns, and  
    inure to the benefit of Grantor and its successors and assigns.  
    This release means that Grantee accepts the Property "as-is, where-is  
    and with-all-faults," and that Grantee assumes all responsibility of  
    Grantor to investigate, remove and remediate any environmental  
    conditions on the Property and has no recourse against Grantor or any  
    of its officers, employees or agents for any claim or liability with  
    respect to the Property.  
  
    Grantor shall have the right to defend itself and seek from Grantee  
    recovery of any damages, liabilities, settlement awards and defense  
    costs and expenses incurred by Grantor if Grantee does not accept  
    unconditionally Grantor's tender to Grantee of the duty to  
    investigation, remove and/or remediate environmental conditions on the  
    Property and/or defend and indemnify Grantor against any such claim,  
    suit, demand, penalty, fee, damages, losses, cost or expense.  This  
    Covenant shall apply regardless of whether or not Grantee is culpable,  
    negligent or in violation of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation.  
    This Covenant is not intended, nor shall it, release, discharge or  
    affect any rights or causes of action that Grantor or Grantee may have  
    against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly  
    stated herein, and each of the parties reserves all such rights  
    including, but not limited to, claims for contribution or cost  
    recovery relating to any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or  
    emanating from the Property.  
  
    Executed this ____day of ___________, 2003, pursuant to Ordinance  
    of The City of Seattle.  
  
                THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
                By:  
  
                     John Franklin  
  
                     Fleets & Facilities Director  
  
    STATE OF WASHINGTON  )  
  
                                                    ) ss  
  
    COUNTY OF KING         )  
  
      On this ____ day of __________, 2003, before me, the undersigned, a  
    Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned  
    and sworn, personally appeared John Franklin, to me known to be the  
    Fleets & Facilities Director of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the municipal  
    corporation on behalf of which the within and foregoing instrument was  
    executed, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and  
    voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation, for the uses and  
    purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized  
    to execute said instrument.  
  
      WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in  
    this instrument above written.  
  
        (Signature)                     (Print or Type Name)  
  
    NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at  
    .  
  
    My commission expires ____________.  
