* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114677**   
**Ordinance Number: 121293**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE accepting the deed to certain real property in Parcel A, City of Seattle short plat subdivision no. 2204735 for general municipal purposes, to be used initially for the new High Point Branch Library.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 29, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 10, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 9, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 2, 2003   
**Committee:** Parks, Education and Libraries   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, LIBRARY, LIBRARIES, HIGH-POINT, DEEDS, SEATTLE-HOUSING-AUTHORITY  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114677.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114677  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
      ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE accepting the deed to certain real property in Parcel A,  
    City of Seattle short plat subdivision no. 2204735 for general  
    municipal purposes, to be used initially for the new High Point  
    Branch Library.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  As requested by the City Librarian and recommended by the  
    Board of Trustees of the Seattle Public Library and the Mayor, the  
    statutory warranty deed executed by the Seattle Housing Authority, as  
    grantor, and recorded under recording no. 20030401001862 conveying  
    the following described real property situated in Seattle, King  
    County, Washington, is hereby accepted and the real property conveyed  
    herein shall be used for general municipal purposes, initially under  
    the jurisdiction of the Seattle Public Library, for the new High  
    Point Branch:  
  
    Parcel A, City of Seattle Short Plat Subdivision No. 2204735,  
    Recorded Under Recording  No. 20021212900012.  
  
    Section 2. Any proceeds from the use of said property shall be  
    deposited in Libraries for All UTGO Fund (#31910) and shall be used  
    to partially offset the acquisition and maintenance costs of the  
    property described in Section 1.  
  
    Section 3.  This transaction is exempt from the provisions of Chapter  
    8.26 RCW (Real Property Acquisition and Relocation Policy) because  
    the acquisition did not occur in connection with a program or project  
    receiving federal or state financial assistance.  
  
    Section 4.  All proceeds from the sale of this property acquired for  
    construction of the new High Point Branch occurring within sixty (60)  
    months from the date of this ordinance shall be redeposited in the  
    Libraries for All UTGO Fund (#31910).  
  
    Section 5.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.01.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachment A:  STATUTORY WARRANTY DEED including Exhibit A.  
  
    SC  
  
    HIP deed ord  
  
    8/04/03  
  
    version #1  
