* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114695**   
**Ordinance Number: 121306**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE authorizing the transfer of jurisdiction over certain real property located in Seattle adjacent to the South Recycling and Disposal Station from the Fleets and Facilities Department to Seattle Public Utilities upon payment of $200,000.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 6, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Compton)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 15, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 14, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 15, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, TRANSFER-STATIONS, SOLID-WASTE  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114695.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114695  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE authorizing the transfer of jurisdiction over certain  
    real property located in Seattle adjacent to the South Recycling and  
    Disposal Station from the Fleets and Facilities Department to Seattle  
    Public Utilities upon payment of $200,000.  
  
    WHEREAS, certain real property described in Section 1 (the  
    "Property") was acquired by deed from King County in 1965 and  
    accepted by Ordinance 94258 for general corporate purposes; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Seattle Public Utilities has requested jurisdiction over the  
    Property for the purpose of improving its solid waste operations; and  
  
    WHEREAS, no other proposals for the use of the Property were received  
    from City departments or other public agencies; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the price to be paid for transfer of jurisdiction over the  
    Property to Seattle Public Utilities takes into consideration the  
    appraised value of the Property and estimated costs of environmental  
    remediation; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the proposed transfer of jurisdiction has been reviewed by  
    the Fleets and Facilities Department's Real Estate Services and the  
    City's Real Estate Oversight Committee, both of which approve the  
    proposed transfer; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
      Section 1.  The Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department is  
    hereby authorized to transfer to Seattle Public Utilities, and the  
    Director of Seattle Public Utilities is hereby authorized to accept  
    for purposes of solid waste operations, jurisdiction over the real  
    property legally described as follows:  
  
    Those portions of Government Lots 2 and 4 in Section 32, Township 24  
    North, Range 4 East W. M., King County, Washington, as follows:  
  
    A strip of land, 60 feet in width, lying between lines and lines  
    extended, the west line being 60 feet west of, as measured at right  
    angles to and parallel with the following described east line:  
    Beginning on the north line of said section, 264 feet east from the  
    northwest corner thereof; thence south 16(31'06" east, 547.61 feet;  
    thence easterly to intersect a point on a line drawn south  
    2(03'26"west from a point on the north line of said section, 73.81  
    feet west of the west line of Geo. Holt Donation Claim No. 51, said  
    point being 516.36 feet south of said north line; thence continuing  
    easterly along said line to the west line of said Donation Claim and  
    the true point of beginning; thence south along the west line of said  
    Donation Claim to an intersection with a line distant 30 feet south  
    of and parallel with the south line of Block 6, 1st Addition to River  
    Park, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 8 of Plats,  
    page 65, Records of King County, Washington.  
  
    Except that portion thereof described as follows:  
  
    Beginning at the intersection of the westerly line of 2nd Avenue  
    South as established by Ordinance No. 80494 with the north line of  
    said Section 32; thence south 0(03'30" west along the westerly line  
    of said 2nd Avenue South 515.825 feet; thence north 89(43'54"east 20  
    feet to the true point of the beginning; thence south 0(03'30"west  
    234 feet; thence north 89(43'54" east 20 feet; thence north 0(03'30"  
    east 234 feet; thence south 89(43'54" west 20 feet to the true point  
    of beginning.  
  
    And,  
  
    A strip of land, 30 feet in width, lying between lines and lines  
    extended, the south line being 30.00 feet south of, as measured at  
    right angles to and parallel with the following described north line:  
    Beginning at the intersection of the west line of Geo. Holt Donation  
    Claim No. 51 with the south line of Block 6, 1st Addition to River  
    Park, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 8 of Plats,  
    page 65, Records of King County, Washington; thence easterly along  
    said south line of said block to the southeast corner of Lot 1, said  
    Block 6.  
  
    Section 2.  The transfer of jurisdiction authorized herein shall  
    occur upon Seattle Public Utilities' deposit of the sum of Two  
    Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000) in the Unrestricted Subaccount of  
    the Cumulative Reserve Subfund (00164), in accordance with SMC  
    5.80.030.  
  
    Section 3.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    John Kennedy/et  
  
    PMA 4251 Ordinance.doc  
  
    July 14, 2003  
  
    version #4  
  
    ATTACHMENT 1  
  
    PRELIMINARY REPORT  
  
  
    PMA 4251  
  
    EVALUATION OF REUSE AND DISPOSAL OPTIONS OF TWO STRIPS OF LAND  
  
    Resolution 29799 directs the Executive is to make its  
    recommendations on the reuse or disposal of excess property on a case  
    by case basis, using the Procedures for Evaluation of the Reuse and  
    Disposal of the City's Real Property adopted by that resolution.  
    Additionally, the Resolution identifies guidelines that are to be  
    considered in making a recommendation.  This report addresses each of  
    the guidelines outlined in Resolution 29799 in support of the  
    recommendation.  
  
    Property Management Area:   Two strips of land, one 30-foot  
    wide and one 60 foot-wide, adjacent to the South Recycling and  
    Disposal Station (PMA#3670).  
  
    BACKGROUND INFORMATION  
  
  
  
  
    Legal Description:  Those portions of Government Lots 2 and 4  
    in Section 32, Township 24 North, Range 4 East W. M., King County,  
    Washington, described as follows:  
  
    A strip of land, 60 feet in width, lying between lines and lines  
    extended, the west line being 60 feet west of, as measured at right  
    angles to and parallel with the following described east line:  
    Beginning on the north of said section, 264 feet east from the  
    northwest corner thereof; thence south 16(31'06" east, 547.61 feet;  
    thence easterly to intersect a point on a line drawn south  
    2(03'26"west from a point on the north line of said section, 73.81  
    feet west of the west line of Geo. Holt Donation Claim No. 51, said  
    point being 516.36 feet south of said north line; thence continuing  
    easterly along said line to the west line of said Donation Claim and  
    the true point of beginning; thence south along the west line of said  
    Donation Claim to an intersection with a line distant 30 feet south  
    of and parallel with the south line of Block 6, 1st Addition to River  
    Park, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 8 of Plats,  
    page 65, Records of King County, Washington.  
  
    Except that portion thereof described as follows:  
  
    Beginning at the intersection of the westerly line of 2nd Avenue  
    South as established by Ordinance No. 80494 with the north line of  
    said Section 32; thence south 0(03'30" west along the westerly line  
    of said 2nd Avenue South 515.825 feet; thence north 89(43'54"east 20  
    feet to the true point of the beginning; thence south 0(03'30"west  
    234 feet; thence north 89(43'54" east 20 feet; thence north 0(03'30"  
    east 234 feet; thence south 89(43'54" west 20 feet to the true point  
    of beginning.  
  
    And,  
  
    A strip of land, 30 feet in width, lying between lines and lines  
    extended, the south line being 30.00 feet south of, as measured at  
    right angles to and parallel with the following described north line:  
    Beginning at the intersection the west line of Geo. Holt Donation  
    Claim No. 51 with the south line of Block 6, 1st Addition to River  
    Park, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 8 of Plats,  
    page 65, Records of King County, Washington; thence easterly along  
    said south line of said block to the southeast corner of Lot 1, said  
    Block 6.  
  
    Physical Description and Related Factors:  The two rectangular  
    strips of land contain a combined total of 42,120 square feet and  
    abut the existing South Recycling and Disposal Station Transfer in an  
    "L" shape.  
  
    GUIDELINE A:  CONSISTENCY  
  
    The analysis should consider the purpose for which the property  
    was originally acquired, funding sources used to acquire the  
    property, terms and conditions of original acquisition, the title or  
    deed conveying the property, or any other contract or instrument by  
    which the City is bound or to which the property is subject, and  
    City, state or federal ordinances, statues and regulations.  
  
    The subject parcels were acquired by deed from King County in 1965  
    and accepted by Ordinance 94258.  The ordinance indicates the purpose  
    of the acquisition was in connection with the Garbage Utility  
    receiving and transfer station provided for under Ordinance 94095  
    (1965).  However, the properties were accepted for General Corporate  
    Purposes and, therefore, jurisdiction is currently with FFD, with one  
    exception.  As shown on the attached map, a portion of the sixty feet  
    wide strip was conveyed for sanitary sewer purposes by Ordinance  
    105330 in 1976.  
  
    Guideline B:  Compatibility and Suitability  
  
    The recommendation should reflect an assessment of the potential  
    for use of the property in support of adopted Neighborhood Plans, as  
    or in support of low-income housing, in support of economic  
    development, in support of affordable housing, for park or open  
    space; in support of Sound Transit Link Light Rail station area  
    development; as or in support of child care facilities, and in  
    support of other priorities reflected in adopted City policies.  
  
    Context.  These two narrow parcels abut two boundaries of the  
    South Recycling and Disposal Station.  They also abut the King County  
    landfill site to the south and west, which has been periodically  
    under consideration for economic development.   The siting and  
    dimensions of the parcels limit the usability of the site.  
  
    Range of Options.  The Seattle Public Utilities (SPU) requested  
    the properties in support of ongoing operations of the South  
    Recycling and Disposal Station and/or expansion and reconfiguration  
    of the facility as a re-use, recycle, self-haul operation.  No other  
    City Departments and public agencies expressed any interest in the  
    subject properties during the circulation process.  Other than City  
    use, the most likely use would be consolidation with the County's  
    property for future development.   Due to zoning, adjoining uses, and  
    physical characteristics, the parcels are unsuitable for development  
    in support of other priorities reflected in adopted City policies  
    such as housing or childcare.  
  
    Guideline C:  Other Factors  
  
    The recommendation should consider the highest and best use of the  
    property, compatibility of the proposed use with the physical  
    characteristics of the property and with surrounding uses, timing and  
    term of the proposed use, appropriateness of the consideration to be  
    received, unique attributes that make the property hard to replace,  
    potential for consolidation with adjacent public property to  
    accomplish future goals and objectives, conditions in the real estate  
    market, and known environmental factors that make affect the value of  
    the property.  
  
    Highest and Best Use:  An appraisal was conducted for the  
    property in January 1999, and updated in August 2001.  The appraiser  
    concluded that the highest and best use of the property would be for  
    industrial warehouse use.  
  
    Compatibility with the physical characteristics:  The physical  
    characteristics of the property, specifically the narrow width, would  
    not support uses except in conjunction with either of the adjoining  
    properties.  
  
    Compatibility with surrounding uses:  Utilization as an  
    expanded transfer station or recycling facility will be compatible  
    with the surrounding industrial nature of the area and will allow the  
    City to maintain the parcels in a relatively undeveloped state.  
  
    Potential for Consolidation with adjacent public property:  
  
    The Transfer of Jurisdiction will, in effect, consolidate the parcels  
    with existing Seattle Public Utilities property at the South  
    Recycling and Disposal Station.  
  
    Timing and Term of Proposed Use:  SPU is entering into a Master  
    Plan for solid waste collection and disposal which will drive the  
    specific use for the site as either a re-use, recycle, self-haul  
    operation or expansion of the existing operation for solid waste  
    transfer.  SPU has identified funding for the transfer of  
    jurisdiction.  
  
    Appropriateness of the consideration:  An appraisal report,  
    dated 08/03/2001, indicated the value of the property to be $380,000.  
    The report assumed the site to be free and clear of all contamination  
    and toxic materials, because no environmental or soil survey was  
    provided to the appraiser. FFD and SPU negotiated an adjusted  
    transfer value of $200,000 based on remediation cost projections made  
    by SPU staff familiar with clean-up expenses.  
  
  
  
    Known environmental factors:  
  
    Intense industrial use have left their residue throughout the  
    Duwamish corridor, with contamination resulting from discharges,  
    spills, dust and dredging. Contamination is especially hazardous in  
    the corridor because the pollutants move via groundwater and surface  
    water runoff.  
  
    Guideline D:  Sale  
  
    The recommendation should evaluate the potential for selling the  
    property to non-City public entities and to members of the general  
    public.  
  
    The only other public entity is King County.  The County owns a  
    former landfill site to the south and west of the subject parcels.  
    Given the request from SPU for the property to meet its solid waste  
    operations needs, this option is not recommended.  
  
    RECOMMENDATION  
  
    The Real Estate Oversight Committee recommends that the Council  
    approve a transfer of jurisdiction over the property from the Fleets  
    and Facilities Department to Seattle Public Utilities upon deposit of  
    the compromised value, $200,000, into the Cumulative Reserve Fund.  
  
                        PROPERTY REVIEW PROCESS DETERMINATION FORM  
  
    Property Name:  PMA 4251  Two strips of land, 30 feet and 60 feet wide in the NW 1/4  
                    of Sec 32, Twn 24N , Rng 4 E.W.M., King County, Washington  
                    ____________________________________________________________  
  
    Address:        Adjacent to South Transfer Station (PMA 3670)  
  
    PMA ID:         4251                      Subject Parcel #: 21623 and 21624  
  
    Dept./Dept ID:  FFD                      Current Use:       Unused  
  
    Area (Sq.       42,120 sq. ft.           Zoning:            IG2U/65'  
    Ft.):  
  
    Est. Value:     $380,000 less            Assessed Value:    No tax account number  
                    remediation  
  
    PROPOSED USES AND RECOMMENDED USE  
  
    Department/Governmental Agencies:       Proposed Use:  
  
    Seattle Public Utilities                Expansion of recycling facility  
  
    Other Parties wishing to acquire:       Proposed Use:  
  
    None                                    Not applicable  
  
    RES'S RECOMMENDED USE: Transfer to SPU for recycling facility  
  
    PROPERTY REVIEW PROCESS DETERMINATION (circle appropriate response)  
  
    1.) Is more than one City dept/Public Agency wishing to acquire?   No / Yes       15  
  
    2.) Are there any pending community proposals for Reuse/           No / Yes       10  
    Disposal?  
  
    3.) Have citizens, community groups and/or other interested        No / Yes       10  
    parties contacted the City regarding any of the proposed options?  
  
    4.) Will consideration be other than cash?                         No / Yes       10  
  
    5.) Is Sale or Trade to a private party being recommended?         No / Yes       25  
  
    6.) Will the proposed use require changes in zoning/other reg's?   No / Yes       20  
  
    7.) Is the estimated Fair Market Value between                     No / Yes       10  
    $250,000-$1,000,000?  
  
    8.) Is the estimated Fair Market Value over $1,000,000?            No/ Yes        45  
  
                              Total Number of Points Awarded for                      10  
    "Yes" Responses:  
  
    Property Classification for purposes of Disposal review:     Simple   /   Complex  
    (circle one)  (a score of 45+ points results in "Complex" classification)  
  
    Signature: John Kennedy   Department: FFD    Date: 08/17/2001  
  
    Attachment 1 - South Recycling and Disposal Station  
