* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114650**   
**Ordinance Number: 121251**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to execute a development agreement for the International District/Chinatown Community Center between the City of Seattle and the Seattle Chinatown International District Preservation and Development Authority; and to accept a deed conveying a condominium interest for Unit 2 of the structure described as IDVS 2.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 11, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Licata, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 19, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 19, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 4, 2003   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO   
  
**Index Terms:** INTERNATIONAL-DISTRICT, COMMUNITY-CENTERS, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, PUBLIC-CORPORATIONS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114650.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114650  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation;  
    authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to execute a  
    development agreement for the International District/Chinatown  
    Community Center between the City of Seattle and the Seattle  
    Chinatown International District Preservation and Development  
    Authority; and to accept a deed conveying a condominium interest for  
    Unit 2 of the structure described as IDVS 2.  
  
    WHEREAS, the 1999 Seattle Center and Community Center Levy provides  
    funds for the joint development of a Community Center in partnership  
    with the Seattle Chinatown Preservation and Development Authority  
    (SCIDPDA) to be located within Phase II of the International District  
    Village Square Project (IDVS2); and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City of Seattle and SCIDPDA have entered into prior  
    agreements including a Bond Payment Guaranty Agreement, Special  
    Obligation Bonds, 2002 Series A (Housing Facilities) dated December  
    12, 2002, and a Bond Payment Guaranty Agreement, Special Obligation  
    Bonds, 2002 Series B (Community Facilities) also dated December 12,  
    2002 for IDVS2; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City of Seattle wishes to enter into an agreement with  
    SCIDPDA to guide the development of the Community Center; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the proposed Development Agreement provides for the design  
    and construction of a Community Center, and for the conveyance of a  
    condominium interest in said Community Center (known as Unit 2 of  
    IDVS2) to the City of Seattle; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation or his  
    designee is hereby authorized to execute and perform, on behalf of  
    the City of Seattle, an agreement with Seattle Chinatown  
    International District Preservation and Development Authority  
    (SCIDPDA) substantially in the form of Attachment 1 to this  
    ordinance.  
  
    Section 2.  The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation or his  
    designee is hereby authorized, on behalf of the City of Seattle, to  
    acquire by bargain and sale deed, when and only when the Conditions  
    Precedent to closing set forth in Exhibit E to Attachment 1 have all  
    been fulfilled, the following described real property, and to accept  
    such deed therefor:  
  
    Unit 2 under the Declaration of Condominium and Covenants, Conditions  
    and Restrictions for IDVS2, a Condominium, recorded under  
    AFN20021211002628 and the Survey Map and Plans Recorded under AFN  
    20021211002627, Vol. 187 of Condominiums, Pages 14-25, both in King  
    County, Washington  
  
      Section 3.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 4.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachment 1:  Development Agreement for International  
    District/Chinatown Community Center Between City of Seattle and  
    Seattle Chinatown International District Preservation and Development  
    Authority  
  
    Candice Chin/CC  
  
    IDVS2 ORD  
  
    7/22/03  
  
    version #4  
  
    Attachment 1  
  
    DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT  
  
    FOR  
  
    INTERNATIONAL DISTRICT/CHINATOWN COMMUNITY CENTER  
  
    BETWEEN  
  
    CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    AND  
  
    SEATTLE CHINATOWN INTERNATIONAL DISTRICT PRESERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT  
    AUTHORITY  
  
      THIS DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") related to the  
    development, design and construction of a new community center as  
    part of the International District Village Square Phase 2 Project is  
    entered into as of this _____ day of __________, 2003 by and between  
    THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("City"), acting by and through its DEPARTMENT OF  
    PARKS AND RECREATION ("Parks"), and the SEATTLE CHINATOWN  
    INTERNATIONAL DISTRICT PRESERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY, a  
    public corporation chartered by the City ("SCIDPDA").  
  
    RECITALS  
  
    A.  SCIDPDA was chartered by the City pursuant to RCW 35.21.730 et  
    seq. and Seattle Municipal Code ("SMC") Chapter 3.110 to "work for  
    the conservation and renewal of the unique cultural and ethnic  
    integrities characteristic of the area historically known as the  
    Chinatown-International District," and "to expand and preserve the  
    residential community, especially for low-income people."  
  
    B.  SCIDPDA has undertaken to develop, design and construct the  
    International District Village Square Phase 2 Project ("Project"), a  
    mixed use project containing (i) a community center ("International  
    District Community Center" or "Community Center"), (ii) low-income  
    family housing, and (iii) certain other community facilities,  
    including parking, a branch public library and other uses.  The  
    Community Center (and community facilities) will be developed by  
    SCIDPDA.  The Community Center will thereafter be a separate  
    condominium unit owned by the City, by and through Parks.  The  
    community facilities will be owned and managed by SCIDPDA.  The right  
    and responsibility to develop, own and manage the low-income family  
    housing has been assigned by SCIDPDA to IDVS 2 Family Housing LLC.  
    However, SCIDPDA will be the managing member of IDVS 2 Family Housing  
    LLC.  
  
    C.  The Project, including its Community Center, will provide  
    significant public benefits to the community by providing public  
    recreational opportunities, a public branch library and low-income  
    family housing.  
  
    D.  SCIDPDA is the owner of the Project site, more particularly  
    described as follows:  
  
    Lots 1 to 8, inclusive, of Turner's Supplemental Plat of the east  
    half of Block 52, D.S. Maynard's Plat of the Town, now City of  
    Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume I of Plats,  
    page 169, in King County Washington together with that public  
    alleyway vacated by Ordinance 120063;  
  
    EXCEPT the south 12 feet of said Lots 1 to 4, inclusive, condemned in  
    King County Superior Court Cause Number 52652, for Dearborn Street,  
    as provided by Ordinance Number 13320 of the City of Seattle.  
  
    E.  The City and SCIDPDA have entered into separate agreements  
    related to the Project, including, without limitation, the following:  
    (i) Bond Payment Guaranty Agreement, Special Obligation Bonds, 2002  
    Series A (Housing Facilities) dated December 12, 2002 (the "Series A  
    Bond Agreement") and Bond Payment Guaranty Agreement, Special  
    Obligation Bonds, 2002 Series B (Community Facilities) dated December  
    12, 2002 (the "Series B Bond Agreement").  
  
    F.  In November 1999, City of Seattle voters approved Proposition 1,  
    providing funding for the development and expansion of 11 community  
    centers.  Among other things, Proposition 1 made $2,100,000 in Parks  
    funding available for the Community Center.  From this source of  
    Parks funding, SCIDPDA and the City have agreed that $216,000 will be  
    retained by Parks as consideration for: (i) design review,  
    administration, project management, and construction inspection  
    services provided by Parks in connection with the Project; (ii) the  
    City's "One Percent for Art" public works construction project  
    program requirements; and (iii) the acquisition of certain equipment  
    and materials for the Community Center.  Therefore, the remaining  
    funding available from this Parks source is $1,884,000.  
  
    G. Additional Parks funding in the amount of $250,000 from the Parks  
    Levy Opportunity Fund is available for the Community Center.  
  
    H.  As a result of the foregoing, the City has made a total of  
    $2,350,000 in Parks funding available for the Community Center.  
  
    I.  Other sources of City funding are also available for the  
    Community Center.  
  
    J.  City funding in the amount of $199,000 from the City's Department  
    of Neighborhoods "Neighborhood Matching Fund" is available for the  
    Community Center gymnasium.  These funds will be administered  
    pursuant to a separate agreement between SCIDPDA and the Department  
    of Neighborhoods.  
  
    K.  City funding in the amount of $175,000 in the form of Community  
    Development Block Grants is available for the Community Center.  
    Funding from this City source will be administered pursuant to a  
    separate agreement between SCIDPDA and the City's Department of Human  
    Services.  
  
    L.  As a result of the foregoing Recitals, the total remaining City  
    funding available from all City sources for the Community Center is  
    $2,508,000 ($2,724,000 less $216,000 retained by Parks as set forth  
    above).  The total cost of the Community Center is presently  
    estimated to be $3,908,784, with SCIDPDA being responsible for  
    arranging for the remainder of the financing.  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants contained herein  
    and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and  
    adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the City, by and through  
    Parks, and SCIDPDA agree as follows:  
  
    ARTICLE I  
  
    DEFINITIONS  
  
    1.1  "SCIDPDA" means the Seattle Chinatown International District  
    Preservation and Development Authority.  
  
    1.2  "Project" means the development, design, permitting and  
    construction of the International District Village Square Phase 2  
    Project at the Project site, including the Community Center,  
    community facilities, low-income family housing, and  
    retail/commercial space.  
  
    1.3 "Community Center" means the gymnasium, restrooms, multi-purpose  
    room, reception area, office space, kitchen and other facilities  
    described in and meeting the specifications of the Community Center  
    Design Program dated January 2, 2001 and the Community Center Design  
    Standards, attached hereto, respectively, as Exhibits A and B and  
    incorporated herein by this reference.  
  
    1.4  "Regulatory Approvals" means all the necessary permits, licenses  
    and other governmental and regulatory approvals and authorizations  
    required to develop the Project, including the Community Center,  
    including without limitation, all necessary SEPA review and required  
    demolition, grading, construction, use and occupancy permits and  
    approvals.  
  
    1.5  "Parks Representative" means the individual designated by Parks  
    to facilitate the reviews and approvals hereunder.  The Parks  
    Representative will serve as the Parks liaison during the Community  
    Center design phase and will be primarily responsible for  
    coordinating and conducting such design review on behalf of Parks.  
    The Parks Representative will also serve as the Parks liaison during  
    the Community Center construction phase, and will be primarily  
    responsible for coordinating and/or undertaking construction  
    administration and inspections related to the Community Center on  
    behalf of the City.  The Parks Representative will visit the Project  
    site regularly, and attend and participate in construction meetings  
    relating to the Project, including the Community Center; provided,  
    however, that SCIDPDA will be responsible for ensuring that the  
    entire Project is constructed in accordance with all approved designs  
    and specifications.  
  
    1.6  "Substantial completion" or "substantially completed" means the  
    state of completion reached when the temporary certificate of  
    occupancy is issued for the Community Center and the Community Center  
    is ready for occupancy for its intended uses.  
  
    1.7  "Final completion" or "finally completed" means the state of  
    completion reached when (i) a permanent Certificate of Occupancy has  
    been issued for the Community Center, (ii) the Community Center may  
    be used or occupied for its intended uses, and (iii) all items of  
    work associated with the Community Center, including "punch list" and  
    close-out obligations, have been satisfactorily completed.  
  
    1.8  "Force majeure" shall mean delays due to war, terrorism,  
    insurrection, strikes, lockouts, riots, floods, earthquakes, fires,  
    casualties, acts of God, acts of the public enemy, epidemics,  
    quarantine restrictions, freight embargoes, lack of transportation,  
    governmental restrictions or priority, litigation, weather or soils  
    conditions that necessitate delays, inability to secure necessary  
    labor, materials or tools, delays of any contractor, subcontractor or  
    supplier, acts or failure to act of any public or governmental entity  
    or any other causes beyond the control or without the fault of  
    SCIDPDA.  
  
    ARTICLE II  
  
    DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITY CENTER  
  
    2.1  Covenant to Develop the Community Center; Assignment.  Subject  
    to (a) the applicable terms and conditions of any other agreement(s)  
    between the City and SCIDPDA and (b) the agreements, terms and  
    conditions herein, and including the payment of the funds by the City  
    as agreed hereunder, SCIDPDA promises to develop, design and  
    construct the Community Center.  SCIDPDA agrees that it will not  
    assign any of its rights or responsibilities under this Agreement to  
    any third party without the prior written approval of the City, which  
    approval will not be unreasonably withheld.  SCIDPDA further agrees  
    that it will ensure that any such assignee is fully bound by the  
    terms and conditions of this Agreement.  
  
    Before commencing construction of the Community Center, SCIDPDA has  
    completed any required SEPA process and has received all applicable  
    Regulatory Approvals related to the Project, including those  
    necessary to commence such construction.  All administrative or other  
    appeals associated with such process and approvals have been resolved  
    or the time periods therefor have expired without any such appeal  
    having been brought.  
  
    2.2  Use of City Funding.  Unless otherwise agreed to, SCIDPDA agrees  
    its use of City funding pursuant to this Agreement will be strictly  
    limited to the development, design and construction of the Community  
    Center.  
  
    2.3  Obligation to Complete Work Once Commenced.  Once construction  
    of the Community Center has been commenced, SCIDPDA will proceed with  
    diligence to cause such Community Center to be constructed on the  
    Project site in accordance with all approved Project designs and  
    specifications, subject to delays for force majeure.  
  
    2.4  Compliance with Project Schedules.  SCIDPDA will at all times  
    exercise its best efforts, subject to delays for force majeure, to  
    adhere to the Community Center construction schedule.  The approved  
    construction schedule is attached hereto as Exhibit C and  
    incorporated herein by this reference.  
  
    2.5 Community Center Contracts and Required Approvals.  Each contract  
    related to the construction of the Community Center, including the  
    design and general construction contracts for the Community Center,  
    will be awarded by SCIDPDA pursuant to processes that: (a) satisfy  
    all state and local laws for the solicitation of proposals or bids by  
    contractors who are qualified to undertake development or  
    construction of the Community Center, and (b) fully comply with all  
    other applicable federal, state and local requirements applicable to  
    the Community Center, including those requirements related to the  
    inclusion of required terms and conditions applicable to the  
    Community Center in all such contracts.  Among other requirements,  
    such contracts will meet the following requirements for City public  
    works projects utilizing City funding: (i) fair contracting practices  
    (Chapter 14.10 SMC); (ii) all applicable federal, state and local  
    nondiscrimination requirements; and (iii) the requirements set forth  
    in RCW 35.22.650.  
  
    2.6 Americans with Disabilities Act.  SCIDPDA will comply, and  
    require its consultants and contractors to comply, with all  
    applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA")  
    in performing its obligations under this Agreement.  Failure to  
    comply with the provisions of the ADA shall be a material breach of,  
    and grounds for the immediate termination of, this Agreement.  
  
    2.7  Available Parks Community Center Funding.  Subject to the terms  
    and conditions of any separate agreements between the City and  
    SCIDPDA, and as described in the Recitals, the maximum possible  
    contribution to the Community Center from all City sources is  
    $2,724,000.  The maximum possible contribution to the Community  
    Center from Parks is $2,350,000, of which $2,134,000 remains  
    available for Community Center purposes as of the date of the  
    execution of this Agreement.  As noted in the Recitals, funding for  
    the Community Center from City sources other than Parks will be  
    administered by separate agreements between SCIDPDA and those other  
    City sources.  The purpose of this Agreement is to provide only for  
    the possible contribution of remaining Parks funding to the Community  
    Center.  Nevertheless, SCIDPDA's obligations hereunder are  
    conditioned on the receipt of the funds provided for in this  
    Agreement as well as the other agreements with the City for funding,  
    so long as any failure to fund is not due to SCIDPDA's breach of its  
    obligations under such agreements.  
  
    2.8  Community Center Funding Contribution Payments.  Provided  
    SCIDPDA is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this  
    Agreement and any separate agreements it has with the City in  
    connection with the Community Center, Parks will make payments to  
    SCIDPDA not exceeding $2,134,000 in accordance with the following:  
  
      (a)  SCIDPDA may submit monthly requests for payment (invoices) to  
    Parks based upon (and not in excess of) the percentage of work  
    completed based on a mutually agreed upon schedule of values  
    contained in the budget for the Community Center; provided, however,  
    that Parks will be permitted to retain 10% of each draw request until  
    final completion has been achieved.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,  
    SCIDPDA will not be entitled to disbursement of such funds if it has  
    failed to deliver the deed to the Community Center in breach of its  
    obligations under Exhibit E attached hereto.  SCIDPDA will adhere to  
    the invoice format and submittal procedure provided by Parks,  
    including the provision of required documentation in support of  
    payment requests.  
  
    (b) Payment requests will be directed to the Parks Representative at  
    the Parks and Recreation Department, 800 Maynard Avenue South, Third  
    Floor, Seattle, WA 98134-1336, and shall be signed by an authorized  
    representative of SCIDPDA.  The Superintendent of Parks, or his or  
    her designated representative, shall issue his or her approval or  
    disapproval in writing within ten (10) working days of receipt of all  
    required documentation.  If the payment request is disapproved, the  
    notice thereof shall contain the reasons for the disapproval; SCIDPDA  
    may correct the reasons for disapproval and resubmit the request for  
    disapproved items.  Upon approval of the payment request by the  
    Superintendent, or his or her designated representative, payment will  
    be made to SCIDPDA within sixty (60) days after notice of the  
    approval.  The City will use its best efforts to expedite this  
    payment process so that payment can be made as quickly as possible to  
    SCIDPDA.  
  
    (c) In order to provide for the accurate accounting of expenditures  
    made from the various City and other funding sources that will  
    contribute to the Project, and to help ensure that Parks funding  
    hereunder is used only for the construction of the Community Center,  
    SCIDPDA will be required to account for costs, expenditures and  
    funding sources associated with the Community Center separately from  
    the other Project elements.  
  
    2.9 Substantial Delay.  SCIDPDA will immediately notify Parks in the  
    event there is any significant risk that there will be (i) a  
    substantial delay of over five (5) working days in the completion of  
    the Community Center as shown in the construction schedule therefor;  
    or (ii) significant risk of increased costs for the Community Center.  
  
    2.10  City Audits.  Upon request, SCIDPDA (including any assignees of  
    rights or responsibilities under this Agreement) will permit the City  
    to inspect and audit all pertinent books and records of SCIDPDA, its  
    assignees, its consultants and contractors, any subcontractors, or  
    any other person or entity that performed work in connection with or  
    related to the Project, at any and all times deemed necessary by the  
    City, including up to six years after the final payment has been made  
    by Parks under this Agreement.  Such inspection and audit shall occur  
    in King County, Washington or other such reasonable location as the  
    City selects.  SCIDPDA will supply the City with, or shall permit the  
    City to make, a copy of any books and records and any portion  
    thereof.  SCIDPDA will ensure that such inspection, audit and copying  
    right of the City is a condition of any contract or agreement,  
    subcontract, or other arrangement under which any other person or  
    entity is permitted to perform work under this Agreement.  
  
    In addition, promptly following final close out of the construction  
    and accounting for the Project, SCIDPDA will provide to Parks a final  
    accounting of the receipt of funds from the City under this Agreement  
    and the expenditure of such funds.  
  
    ARTICLE III  
  
    COMMUNITY CENTER DESIGN AND SPECIFICATION PHASE  
  
    3.1  Development of the Preliminary and Final Design.  A contract for  
    the design of the Project, including the Community Center, has  
    previously been awarded by SCIDPDA.  SCIDPDA will continue to be  
    solely responsible for the administration of the Project design  
    contract:  
  
    (a)  Overall Design Responsibilities.  SCIDPDA will continue to be  
    responsible for overseeing the design development agreement for the  
    Community Center.  The parties agree that the Final Project Design  
    Documents for the Community Center that have been produced pursuant  
    to that agreement are consistent with the Community Center Design  
    Program (Exhibit A hereto), Community Center Design Standards  
    (Exhibit B hereto), which are the applicable City and Parks standards  
    related to the Community Center.  Final Project Design Documents have  
    been approved by the City.  
  
    (b)  No Representations or Liability.  No City approval of or in  
    connection with the Preliminary Project Design or the Final Project  
    Design and Specifications (or amendments thereto) will constitute an  
    opinion or representation by the City as to their (i) compliance with  
    any law, ordinance or standard, or (ii) suitability for any purpose  
    other than those associated with the Community Center.  
  
    3.2  Changes in Approved Project Design and Specifications and  
    Community Center Budget.  In the event SCIDPDA proposes to change or  
    amend the approved Preliminary Project Design or the approved Final  
    Project Design and Specifications and Drawings with respect to the  
    design of the Community Center, or SCIDPDA considers it necessary to  
    change the approved Community Center budget, any such proposed change  
    or amendment will be subject to the written approval of the City,  
    which approval will not be unreasonably withheld.  Among other  
    things, it will not be unreasonable for the City to withhold its  
    approval if the proposed change would (i) cause the Community Center  
    to not comply with the City's design program and standards therefor,  
    which design program and standards are set forth on Exhibits A and B  
    attached hereto; or (ii) either reduce the agreed scope (as shown in  
    the approved Final Project Design and Specifications and Drawings) of  
    the Community Center or require additional City funding for the  
    Community Center.  The City will complete its review of any such  
    proposed changes or amendments and provide to SCIDPDA notice of its  
    approval or disapproval thereof within ten (10) working days of  
    receipt of any such proposed change or amendment.  
  
    ARTICLE IV  
  
    PROJECT REGULATORY APPROVAL PHASE  
  
    4.1  Responsibility for Regulatory Approvals.  SCIDPDA (or its  
    assignees) will be responsible at its own cost for securing all  
    necessary Regulatory Approvals related to the development and  
    construction of the Project, including those pertaining to the  
    Community Center.  
  
    4.2  Compliance with Conditions of Permits and Approvals.  SCIDPDA  
    will be responsible for ensuring compliance during construction with  
    any and all conditions or others requirements associated with  
    Regulatory Approvals in connection with the Project, including those  
    pertaining to the Community Center.  
  
    ARTICLE V  
  
    Intentionally Deleted.  
  
    ARTICLE VI  
  
    COMMUNITY CENTER CONSTRUCTION PHASE  
  
    6.1  Construction Commencement.  SCIDPDA has commenced construction  
    of the Community Center.  The Construction Phase is expected to end  
    when construction of the Community Center has been finally completed.  
    The parties expect that the Community Center construction schedule  
    attached as Exhibit C may be updated by SCIDPDA from time to time as  
    may become necessary during the Construction Phase; provided,  
    however, that any such update will be subject to the approval of  
    Parks (which approval will not be unreasonably withheld); and,  
    provided, further, that SCIDPDA will at all times exercise its best  
    efforts to adhere to such schedule, including any approved updates,  
    subject to delays for force majeure.  
  
    6.2  Construction Phase Approvals and Control of Work; Substantial  
    Completion and Final Completion of Community Center:  
  
    (a) Construction Phase Approvals and Control of Work.  In addition to  
    its right to approve the Final Project Design and Specifications as  
    they relate to the Community Center (Section 3.2), the City will have  
    the right to approve, in advance and in writing, any proposed changes  
    to the proposed work during construction that relate to the Community  
    Center.  Such proposed changes will be approved through the same  
    process identified for Community Center design changes or amendments  
    in Section 3.2.  
  
    (b) Review of Work.  The City, including its Parks Representative,  
    shall use its best efforts to attend Project construction meetings  
    during the Construction Phase, and will be provided with timely  
    notice of such meetings.  These meetings are currently scheduled for  
    every Thursday beginning at 9:00 a.m.  Work performed and materials  
    furnished related to the Community Center will be subject to  
    inspection by the City, including the Parks Representative, with a  
    minimum of forty-eight (48) hours' advance notice.  
  
    (c) Commissioning.  SCIDPDA will hire a City-approved commissioning  
    consultant to coordinate with and assist SCIDPDA in its  
    implementation of the Building Commissioning Plan for the Community  
    Center.  This cost is contained in the budget.  The implementation of  
    such plan shall result in full compliance with City standards for  
    full documentation of building commissioning.  In particular, it will  
    structure and document the full initiation, testing, operational  
    instruction and record documentation of all Project systems.  
  
    (d)  Substantial Completion.  SCIDPDA will notify the Parks  
    Representative, in writing when the Community Center is substantially  
    completed.  As part of such notification, SCIDPDA will advise the  
    City of any items of work that remain incomplete and a schedule for  
    their completion.  Thereafter, the City, including the Parks  
    Representative, will conduct an inspection of the Community Center  
    with SCIDPDA, together with its design consultant and construction  
    contractor, to review the progress of the Community Center work.  
  
    Within five business days following such inspection, the City will  
    advise SCIDPDA by written notice of the remaining punchlist items to  
    be completed to achieve final completion.  
  
    Upon receipt of such written notice of punchlist items from the City,  
    SCIDPDA will diligently pursue the remaining work necessary to  
    achieve such final completion.  
  
    (e)  Final Completion Date; Certificate of Occupancy.  Final  
    completion of the Community Center will have been achieved when (i) a  
    permanent Certificate of Occupancy for the Community Center has been  
    issued, and (ii) all remaining Community Center work items, including  
    "punch list" items, have been completed to the satisfaction of Parks.  
  
      SCIDPDA will not schedule a final inspection until it and its  
    construction contractor believe construction of the Community Center  
    has been finally completed.  Following notice of same from SCIDPDA,  
    the City, including the Parks Representative, will conduct an  
    inspection of the Community Center with SCIDPDA, together with its  
    design consultant and construction contractor.  
  
    If, following such inspection, the City concurs with SCIDPDA that  
    construction of the Community Center is finally completed, the City  
    will advise SCIDPDA of same by written notice within five business  
    days following the inspection.  Such written notice will include a  
    Final Completion Date for the Community Center agreed to by the City  
    and SCIDPDA.  However, if the City following such inspection does not  
    reasonably consider the construction of the Community Center to be  
    finally completed, the City will advise SCIDPDA of same by written  
    notice within such five day period, which notice will include the  
    reasons therefor.  
  
    Upon receipt of any written notice from the City that the  
    construction of the Community Center is not finally completed,  
    SCIDPDA will diligently pursue the remaining work necessary to  
    achieve such final completion.  Subsequent inspection(s) for purposes  
    of determining whether construction of the Community Center is  
    finally completed will occur in the manner set forth above.  
  
    Once a permanent Certificate of Occupancy has been issued and a Final  
    Completion Date for the Community Center has been established, a  
    Certificate of Final Completion will be issued by the City; provided,  
    however, that such date and certificate will not constitute  
    acceptance by the City of any unauthorized or defective work or  
    materials.  
  
    (f)  Guaranties, Warranties and Promises.  To the extent separately  
    assignable to the City as part of the conveyance of the Community  
    Center to the City, SCIDPDA will assign all manufacturer's guaranties  
    and warranties that SCIDPDA has received with respect to the  
    equipment and products that are part of the Community Center.  
  
    (g)  Defective or Unauthorized Work or Materials.  If, within one  
    year after the Project's Final Completion Date, any defective or  
    unauthorized work or materials are discovered, the City may in its  
    discretion pursue SCIDPDA and/or the contractor or supplier thereof.  
  
    ARTICLE VII  
  
    COMMUNITY CENTER CONSTRUCTION CLOSEOUT PHASE  
  
    7.1  Community Center Construction Closeout.  The Community Center  
    Construction Closeout Phase will commence upon issuance of the  
    Certificate of Final Completion for the Community Center and will  
    terminate upon the date that the Community Center is conveyed to  
    Parks by way of a bargain and sale deed pursuant to the terms and  
    conditions of the Purchase Addendum in Exhibit E attached hereto.  
  
    7.2  SCIDPDA's Closeout Obligations.  Within 120 days from the date  
    of the issuance of the Certificate of Final Completion, SCIDPDA will  
    perform the following obligations ("SCIDPDA's Closeout Obligations"):  
  
    (a) Execute, acknowledge and record a bargain and sale deed conveying  
    all right, title and interest to the Community Center to the City in  
    accordance with Exhibit E;  
  
    (b) To the extent separately assignable, assign to the City all  
    manufacturers' guaranties and warranties related to the materials,  
    products and equipment provided to SCIDPDA and located in the  
    Community Center;  
  
    (c) Secure and deliver to the City unconditional lien releases  
    related to the Community Center from the Community Center design  
    consultant, construction contractor, subcontractors, suppliers,  
    vendors, laborers and materialmen;  
  
    (e)  Furnish the City with two (2) original complete sets of Mylar  
    drawings ("Record Drawings") reflecting the final "as built"  
    condition of the Community Center.  The Record Drawings (black  
    background prints are not acceptable) will also be provided to the  
    City on electronic media that is compatible with Auto Cad 2000 or  
    later version;  
  
    (f)  Furnish to Parks all contractor maintenance manuals, including  
    operating manuals, equipment brochures, paint schedules and material  
    brochures related to the Community Center.  Deliver operating  
    manuals, warranties and other information and materials in SCIDPDA's  
    possession that relate to the use and operation of the Community  
    Center to Parks;  
  
    (g) Deliver all certificates of occupancy and other permits and  
    approvals necessary for the use and operation of the Community Center  
    ("Use Permits") to Parks; and  
  
    (h) Attend warranty walk through meeting scheduled by the City within  
    one year of the Substantial Completion Date as established by the  
    City.  
  
    ARTICLE VIII  
  
    HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFICATION  
  
    8.1  Hold Harmless and Indemnification.  Each party (including any  
    assignees of rights or responsibilities under this Agreement) shall  
    hold harmless, indemnify and defend the other party, its officers,  
    trustees, agents and employees, from and against any and all suits,  
    claims, actions, losses, costs, penalties and damages of any kind or  
    nature whatsoever to the extent they arise out of such indemnifying  
    party's negligence or the breach by such indemnifying party of any  
    covenant or warranty under this Agreement.  Upon timely notice of the  
    commencement of any such suit, claim or action, the indemnifying  
    party shall promptly assume the defense of the indemnified party, its  
    officers, agents and employees; shall pay all defense expenses,  
    including reasonable attorneys' fees, expert fees and costs incurred  
    in connection with such suit, claim or action; shall reimburse all  
    costs reasonably incurred by the indemnified party in defending  
    itself, its officers, agents and employees, against such suit, claim  
    or action prior to the indemnifying party's acceptance of defense  
    responsibility with respect to suit, claim or action; and shall  
    satisfy any judgment rendered in connection therewith or pay any sum  
    required to settle such suit, claim or action.  The parties agree  
    that their respective obligations under this subsection extend to  
    suits, claims and actions made against either party by the other  
    party's officers, trustees and employees.  For this purpose, the  
    parties, by mutual negotiation, hereby waive, as respects the other  
    party only, any immunity that would otherwise be available against  
    such suits, claims or actions under the industrial insurance  
    provisions of Title 51 RCW.  
  
    8.2  Joint Liability.  In the event the parties are jointly liable to  
    any claimant or litigant, each party shall bear responsibility for  
    its own defense, including the payment of all attorneys' fees and  
    costs associated therewith, and shall satisfy any judgment or  
    settlement to the extent allocated to such party's fault.  
  
    8.3  Survival of Article.  The provisions of this Article 8 shall  
    survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.  
  
    ARTICLE IX  
  
    INSURANCE  
  
    9.1  General Obligations:  At all time hereunder, SCIDPDA shall, at  
    its own expense, obtain and continuously maintain, or cause to be  
    obtained and continuously maintained, in full force and effect,  
    insurance policy(ies) in conjunction with the following:  
  
    (a)  SCIDPDA's activity on or use or occupation of the Project site;  
  
    (b)  The design, construction management, inspection, construction,  
    reconstruction, operation, maintenance, use or existence of the  
    Project, including the Community Center; and  
  
    (c)  Any and all claims and risks in connection with the activities  
    performed by SCIDPDA under this Agreement.  
  
    With respect to all consultants and contractors performing Project  
    work on behalf of SCIDPDA, SCIDPDA shall:  
  
    (i)  Obtain from each consultant and contractor evidence that such  
    contractor or consultant has obtained and maintained a policy or  
    policies of insurance as required herein;  
  
    (ii)  Submit evidence of insurance as required herein to the City for  
    review and approval;  
  
    (iii)  Require that all such policies name the City as an additional  
    insured, including completed operations, on all liability policies  
    per ISO form CG2026 or its equivalent; and  
  
    (iv)  Include, in all contracts executed by SCIDPDA with respect to  
    the Project, provisions which extend to the City construction  
    indemnities and warranties granted to SCIDPDA.  
  
    9.2  Required Insurance.  The following policies shall be obtained  
    and continuously maintained at all times hereunder by SCIDPDA:  
  
    SCIDPDA shall obtain and continuously maintain the following policies  
    of insurance:  
  
    (a) A policy of Commercial General Liability Insurance, written on an  
    insurance industry standard occurrence form (CG 00 01) including all  
    the usual coverage known as:  
  
    - Premises/Operations Liability;  
  
    - Products/Completed Operations;  
  
    - Personal/Advertising Injury;  
  
    - Contractual Liability;  
  
    - Explosion, Collapse and Underground Property Damage (XCU);  
  
    - Independent Contractors Liability;  
  
    - Stop Gap or Employers Contingent Liability; and  
  
    - Per Project Coverage (CG2503 ISO), or equivalent.  
  
    Such policy(ies) shall provide the following minimum limits:  
  
      Bodily Injury and Property Damage:  
  
    $ 1,000,000   General Aggregate  
  
        $ 1,000,000   Products & Completed Operations Aggregate  
  
        $ 1,000,000   Personal & Advertising Injury  
  
        $ 1,000,000   Each Occurrence  
  
      $    100,000   Fire Damage  
  
    (b)  A policy of Business Automobile Liability Insurance, including  
    coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles written on an  
    insurance industry standard form (CA 00 01) or equivalent, and as  
    specified by Insurance Services Office Symbol 1 (any auto).  If  
    "pollutants" as defined in exclusion 11 of the commercial auto policy  
    are to be transported, endorsement CA9948 & MCS 90 are required.  
  
    Such policy(ies) must provide the following minimum limit:  
  
    Bodily Injury and Property Damage  
  
        $ 1,000,000   per accident  
  
    (c) A policy of Excess Liability Insurance above the primary general  
    liability and auto liability policies that will provide a total limit  
    of insurance of $5,000,000 per Occurrence/Aggregate/per Claim.  The  
    excess policy shall be, at a minimum, as broad as the primary  
    policies.  
  
    (d) A policy of Worker's Compensation:  As respects Workers'  
    Compensation insurance in the state of Washington, SCIDPDA shall  
    secure its liability for industrial injury to its employees in  
    accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of  
    Washington.  SCIDPDA shall be responsible for Workers' Compensation  
    Insurance for any and all contractors and subcontractors who provide  
    services with respect to the Project.  Additionally, if the any  
    contractor or subcontractor is required to work on or around a  
    navigable waterway, the Authority shall provide evidence of United  
    States Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' (USL&H) coverage and  
    contingent coverage for Jones Act (Marine Employers Liability) in  
    compliance with federal statutes.  If SCIDPDA is qualified as a self-  
    insurer in accordance with Chapter 51.14 of the Revised Code of  
    Washington, SCIDPDA shall so certify to the City by submitting a  
    letter signed by a corporate officer, indicating that it is a  
    qualified self-insurer, and setting forth the limits of any policy of  
    excess insurance covering its employees; or any similar coverage  
    required.  
  
    9.3  Design, Construction Management or Inspection.   In addition to  
    standard insurance requirements set forth above, SCIDPDA shall obtain  
    or cause to be obtained the following additional insurance coverage:  
  
    (a)  Errors and Omissions Liability Insurance:   A policy of Errors  
    and Omissions Liability Insurance appropriate to each consultant's  
    profession.  Coverage should be for a professional error, act or  
    omission arising out of the scope of services shown in the contract.  
    The policy shall not exclude any of the following:  
  
    -  Claims arising out of pollution for environmental work**  
  
    -  Construction Administration Services **  
  
    -  Laboratory analysis**  
  
    **Only required when services are to be performed under this  
    agreement.  
  
    The minimum limit of coverage shall be $1,000,000 per Claim/Aggregate  
  
    9.4  Construction, Reconstruction, Operations.  In addition to the  
    standard insurance requirements set forth above, SCIDPDA shall secure  
    or cause to be secured, the following additional insurance coverage:  
  
    (a)  Builder's Risk Insurance:   SCIDPDA shall purchase and maintain  
    builders insurance on an "All Risk" basis, in an amount equal to 100%  
    replacement cost thereof, against loss from the perils of fire and  
    other risks of direct physical loss, including earthquake and flood  
    damage. SCIDPDA/Contractor shall be responsible for the policy  
    deductible. The policy shall include as Loss Payee the City.  The  
    Authority shall provide the City with a duplicate original of said  
    policy.  
  
    Coverage shall include all materials, supplies, and equipment  
    intended for specific installation in the Project while such  
    materials, supplies and/or equipment are located at the Project site,  
    in transit or while temporarily located away from the Project site.  
    Coverage shall also include the value of site preparation work, the  
    value of underground property, the cost of debris removal, and the  
    cost of pollutant cleanup as well as removal.  
  
    In addition, the following coverage extensions shall be included:  
    delayed opening, loss of earnings, operation of building codes,  
    demolition, contingent liability and increased costs of construction.  
    The policy shall not contain any coinsurance penalty provision or any  
    occupancy clauses.  
  
    With respect to the Builder's Risk Policy described herein, the City  
    and SCIDPDA waive all subrogation rights against each other, any  
    contractors and consultants, and any of their subcontractors or  
    subconsultants, for damages caused by fire or other perils to the  
    extent covered by property insurance obtained pursuant to this  
    section or other property insurance applicable to the Project, except  
    such rights as they have to proceeds of such insurance held by the  
    City as fiduciary.  This waiver of subrogation shall be effective to  
    a person or entity even though that person or entity would otherwise  
    have a duty of indemnification, contractual or otherwise, whether or  
    not the person or entity paid the insurance premium directly or  
    indirectly and whether or not the person or entity had and insurance  
    interest in the property damaged.  
  
    The City reserves the right to purchase this policy for the Project,  
    adding SCIDPDA/Contractor as an additional insured to any such  
    policy.  If the City does purchase such a policy, SCIDPDA shall  
    reimburse the City for all of its costs for such coverage.  
  
    9.5  Warranty, Repair or Remedy of Defects.  SCIDPDA shall obtain a  
    bond from a surety company, acceptable to the City, which for a  
    period of one year after Substantial Completion of the Community  
    Center shall provide for payment for the repair or remedy of defects  
    in the Community Center which are due to faulty materials or  
    workmanship and for damage to other work resulting from such faulty  
    material and workmanship.  
  
    9.6  Deductibles.  If any of the above required insurance contains a  
    deductible (or self-insured retention amount) the  
    SCIDPDA/Consultant/Contractor shall:  
  
    1.  Disclose such amount; and  
  
    2.  Be responsible for payment of any claim equal to or less than the  
    deductible (or self-insured retention amount).  
  
    The City reserves the right to reject insurance policies with a  
    deductible (or self-insured retention amount) in excess of $25,000  
    for which adequate financial strength of the Insured cannot be  
    demonstrated to the satisfaction of the City.  
  
    9.7  Conditions.  The insurance policy or policies, endorsements  
    thereto, and subsequent renewals required under this Article IX  
    shall:  
  
    1.  Be subject to approval by the City as to company, form and  
    coverage.  The insurance company shall be:  
  
    a. Rated A-:VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide; and  
  
    b. Licensed to do business in the State of Washington or be filed as  
    surplus lines by a Washington broker.  
  
    2. Be primary as respects the City, and any other insurance  
    maintained by the City shall be excess insurance and not contributing  
    insurance with SCIDPDA, and/or its consultants, contractors,  
    inspectors, or other contractors of any kind;  
  
    3. Be maintained in full force and effect through the Agreement;  
  
    4. Protect the City within the policy limits from any and all losses,  
    claims, actions, damages, and expenses arising out or resulting from  
    SCIDPDA's and/or any of its consultant's, contractor's, inspector's,  
    or other contractor's performance or lack of performance;  
  
    5. Name the City as an additional insured pursuant to the  
    requirements of the provisions below related to "Evidence of  
    Insurance"; and  
  
    6.  Include a provision (whether by endorsement or otherwise)  
    indicating that, except with respect to the limits of insurance and  
    any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named  
    insured, the insurance shall apply:  
  
    a.  As if each party insured thereunder (whether as a named insured,  
    additional named insured, or additional insured) were the only party  
    insured by such policy; and  
  
    b.  Separately to each insured against whom a claim is made or a suit  
    is brought.  
  
    9.8  Evidence of Insurance.  In many cases, evidence of insurance may  
    be demonstrated by submitting a copy (photocopy or facsimile  
    acceptable) of the declarations pages of the policy and the  
    additional insured endorsement.  The declaration pages shall clearly  
    show the policy effective dates, limits and schedule of forms and  
    endorsements.  Any reference to premiums may be blacked out.  However  
    at the option of the City, SCIDPDA and/or its designated Contractors,  
    Consultants and Inspectors, as outlined above, may be required to  
    submit a copy of the insurance policy, all referenced endorsements,  
    or both.  Certificates of Insurance (ACORD forms) will not be  
    accepted as evidence of insurance.  Evidence of insurance for each  
    policy shall:  
  
    1. Comply with one of the following requirements regarding naming the  
    City as an additional insured, including Completed Operations:  
  
    (a)  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Standard Endorsement:  An  
    additional insured endorsement issued on an ISO form CG 20 26 or its  
    equivalent, shall name "The City of Seattle, its officers, elected  
    officials, employees, agents, and volunteers" as an additional  
    insured.  The endorsement shall:  
  
    (i) Be signed by an authorized representative of the insurance  
    company; and  
  
    (ii) Include the policy number and name of the insured on the  
    endorsement.  
  
      (b)  Non-ISO Endorsements: For Non-ISO endorsements, any of the  
    following options are acceptable:  
  
    (i)  A blanket clause (in the policy or endorsement) adding, without  
    undue   restriction of coverage, as additional insured anyone for  
    whom SCIPDA and/or its consultants, contractors, inspectors, or other  
    contractors of any kind, are required to provide insurance under a  
    contract or permit;  
  
    (ii) An additional insured endorsement on a non-ISO endorsement form  
    containing the following provision:  
  
      "The City of Seattle, its officers, elected officials, employees,  
    agents, volunteers, are an additional insured for all coverage  
    provided by this policy and shall be fully and completely protected  
    to the extent provided in said policy for any and every injury,  
    death, damage and loss of any sort sustained by any person,  
    organization or corporation in connection with any activity performed  
    by SCIDPDA, and/or  its consultants, contractors, inspectors, or  
    other contractors of any kind, as outlined above by virtue of the  
    provisions of this Agreement between The City of Seattle and SCIDPDA.  
  
    The coverage provided by this policy to The City of Seattle shall not  
    be terminated, reduced or otherwise materially changed without  
    providing at least forty-five (45) days prior written notice to The  
    City of Seattle.";  or  
  
    (iii)   Any other additional insured endorsement form or clause  
    approved by the City.  
  
    9.9  Consultants, Contractors, Inspectors or other Contractors of any  
    Kind Performing Work, or Other Agreements - Additional Insured  
    Provision Requirement of Authority.  SCIDPDA shall require that any  
    and all of its consultants, contractors, inspectors, or other  
    contractors of any kind, performing work, or other agreements with  
    respect to the Project, shall name the City as an additional insured,  
    including completed operations, on all liability policies as  
    indicated herein, on ISO Form 2026 or equivalent.  SCIDPDA shall  
    further require in all contracts with respect to the Project, a  
    provision which extends to the City, construction indemnities and  
    warranties granted to SCIDPDA.  
  
    ARTICLE X  
  
    DISPUTES  
  
    10.1  Disputes.  In the event of any dispute or misunderstanding that  
    may arise between the parties under this Agreement, the parties will  
    first attempt to resolve the dispute through amicable negotiations  
    ("Preliminary Negotiations"), if possible, between the SCIDPDA  
    Project Manager and Parks Representative, or if necessary, between  
    the Superintendent of the Parks Department and the Executive Director  
    of SCIDPDA.  If such officials do not agree upon a resolution within  
    a reasonable period of time (not to exceed 10 business days), and to  
    ensure that the approved construction schedule is not disrupted, the  
    parties shall engage in mediation to resolve the dispute.  The  
    parties shall attempt to agree upon a mediator within 15 days after  
    the Preliminary Negotiations have concluded without resolution.  If  
    they are unable to agree on a mediator within such time, either party  
    may seek the appointment of a mediator through the King County  
    Superior Court.  The mediation shall be held within 60 days after the  
    appointment of the mediator.  The construction schedule shall be  
    adjusted as necessary to accommodate delays arising out of the  
    mediation process.  Each party shall bear its own attorneys' fees in  
    the mediation and shall share equally the mediator's fees and costs.  
  
    ARTICLE XI  
  
    TERMINATION  
  
    11.1  For Cause.  Either party may terminate this Agreement only if  
    the other party is in material breach of any of the terms of this  
    Agreement, and such breach has not been corrected to the non-  
    breaching party's reasonable satisfaction in accordance with Section  
    11.2 after notice of the breach has been communicated in writing to  
    the party allegedly in breach.  
  
    11.2  Undue Delay.  The City may terminate this Agreement if the  
    Community Center is for whatever reason not finally complete (i.e.,  
    final completion has not been achieved) as of June 1, 2005.  
  
    11.3  Remedies/Enforceability.  In the event either party violates  
    this Agreement ("breaching party"), the non-breaching party will  
    notify the breaching party in writing of the breach.  The breaching  
    party will have thirty (30) days from the date of such notice to cure  
    such breach.  However, if the breach is of such a nature that it may  
    not practicably be cured within thirty (30) days, the non-breaching  
    party will not be entitled to exercise its remedies so long as the  
    breaching party promptly commences cure of such breach within the  
    thirty (30) day period and diligently pursues the cure to completion  
    with a reasonable time approved by the non-breaching party.  If the  
    breaching party does not cure or commence to cure pursuant to the  
    foregoing, the non-breaching party may, in its discretion, pursue any  
    and all remedies available at law or in equity.  The parties agree  
    that such remedies will include termination of this Agreement.  The  
    cure periods set forth in this paragraph shall not apply to paragraph  
    11.2 above.  
  
    Regardless of whether this Agreement is terminated under paragraph  
    11.1 or 11.2 above, in no event will SCIDPDA be liable for return of  
    the funds advanced hereunder.  Instead, in either event, the City  
    shall be entitled to take over in whole or in part management of the  
    Project, including the Community Center in accordance with Section  
    6.3 of the Series B Bond Agreement.  If the City exercises this  
    remedy, SCIDPDA shall pay to the City the amount of any funds that it  
    has raised for construction of the Community Center, which funds have  
    not yet been expended on the Community Center.  
  
    11.4  Actual Damages.  The City may request from SCIDPDA a written  
    indication of the date on which the Community Center will be  
    substantially complete (i.e., substantial completion has been  
    achieved) for purposes of retaining staff and procuring equipment  
    associated with the operation of the Community Center.  Such request  
    shall state that it is made pursuant to this paragraph.  If the  
    Community Center is not substantially complete by the first working  
    day following the date given in writing by SCIDPDA, then SCIDPDA  
    shall be liable to the City for damages measured by the actual cost  
    to the City of personnel hired to staff the Community Center and the  
    storage of Community Center equipment starting on such first day  
    following the designated substantial completion date for a period not  
    to exceed 90 days.  Such damages shall be mitigated to the extent  
    that such employees are either no longer City employees or have found  
    other employment with the City.  
  
    ARTICLE XII  
  
    MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS  
  
    12.1  Plans.  Upon conveyance of the Community Center to the City,  
    SCIDPDA will provide Parks with a physical copy of the as-built plans  
    and the design bid documents for the Community Center, which the City  
    will own.  
  
    12.2  Amendments.  No modification of this Agreement will be  
    effective unless in writing and signed by an authorized  
    representative of each of the parties hereto.  
  
    12.3  Binding Agreement. This Agreement will not be binding until  
    signed by both parties.  The provisions, covenants and conditions in  
    this Agreement shall bind the parties (including any assignees of  
    rights or responsibilities under this Agreement) and their legal  
    representatives, successors, and assigns.  
  
    12.4  Applicable Law/Venue.  This Agreement shall be construed and  
    interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington.  
    The venue of any action brought hereunder shall be in the Superior  
    Court for King County, Washington.  
  
    12.5  Captions.  The titles of sections are for convenience only and  
    do not define or limit the contents.  
  
    12.6  Severability.  If any term or provision of this Agreement is  
    determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or  
    unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected  
    thereby, and each term and provision of this Agreement shall be valid  
    and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.  
  
    12.7  Waiver.  No covenant, term or condition or the breach thereof  
    shall be deemed waived, except by written consent of the party  
    against whom the waiver is claimed, and any waiver of the breach of  
    any covenant, term or condition shall not be deemed to be a waiver of  
    any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other covenant,  
    term or condition.  
  
    12.8  Entire Agreement.  This document, along with its exhibits,  
    constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to  
    the contribution of funds by the City, through Parks, in connection  
    with the development, design, construction and conveyance of the  
    Community Center portion of the Project.  No verbal agreement or  
    conversation between any officer, agent, associate or employee of the  
    City and SCIDPDA prior to the execution of this Agreement shall  
    affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in this  
    Agreement.  
  
    12.9  Negotiated Agreement.  The parties acknowledge that this is a  
    negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this  
    Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the  
    terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed  
    against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.  
  
    12.10  Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts,  
    with each fully executed counterpart being deemed an original hereof.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment by  
    having their representatives affix their signatures below.  
  
    SEATTLE CHINATOWN       THE CITY OF SEATTLE  
  
    INTERNATIONAL DISTRICT    PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT  
  
    PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT  
  
    AUTHORITY  
  
    By: ______________________________             By:  
    ____________________________  
  
    Name: Sue Taoka  
  
    Name: Kenneth R. Bounds  
  
    Title: Executive Director  
  
    Title: Superintendent  
  
    EXHIBIT E  
  
    Purchase Addendum  
  
      In this Purchase Addendum ("Addendum"), SCIDPDA is referred to as  
    "Seller" and the City is referred to as "Buyer."  Capitalized terms  
    used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given  
    in the Development Agreement to which this Addendum is attached (the  
    "Development Agreement").  
  
      1.  Property.  The "Property" consists of the Community Center  
    condominium unit known as Unit 2 under the Declaration of Condominium  
    and Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions for IDVS 2, a Condominium,  
    recorded under AFN 20021211002628 and the Survey Map and Plans  
    recorded under AFN 20021211002627, Vol. 187 of Condominiums, Pages  
    14-25, both in King County, Washington.  No personal property is  
    included in the Property.  
  
      2.  Purchase.  Seller shall sell and convey the Property to Buyer,  
    and Buyer shall accept the Property from Seller, on the terms,  
    covenants and conditions set forth in this Addendum.  
  
      3.  Purchase Price.  No purchase price shall be due upon the  
    transfer of the Property to Buyer.  Buyer's consideration for the  
    Property shall be all of the payments made to Seller pursuant to the  
    Development Agreement.  
  
      4.  Title.  Seller shall convey by bargain and sale deed to Buyer  
    at the Closing title to the Property.  Title at the time of transfer  
    shall be free and clear of all liens and encumbrances except for (a)  
    any liens or encumbrances created by or through Buyer; (b) the  
    condominium declaration creating the Property as a separate unit; (c)  
    utility and access easements that do not unreasonably interfere with  
    Buyer's intended use of the Property; and (d) rights reserved in  
    federal patents or state deeds and building or use restrictions  
    general to the district in which the Property is located  
    (collectively, the "Permitted Encumbrances").  Buyer will obtain an  
    ALTA standard owner's title insurance for the Property.  
  
      5.  Conditions Precedent.  The parties' obligation to proceed with  
    the closing of the transfer of the Property is subject to fulfillment  
    of the conditions precedent ("Conditions Precedent") described below  
    or waiver thereof before the Closing Date.  
  
        (a)  Final Completion.  The Community Center shall have been  
    finally completed and the condominium declaration creating the  
    Property shall have been recorded.  
  
        (b)  Full Force and Effect.  The Agreement shall not have been  
    previously terminated under any provision thereof.  
  
        (c)  Buyer's Title Insurance.  Pacific Northwest Title Insurance  
    Company (or other title insurance company acceptable to the parties)  
    is willing to issue an owner's title insurance policy in favor of  
    Buyer subject only to the special exceptions for the Permitted  
    Encumbrances and the standard general exceptions.  
  
      6.  Deliveries to Escrow Holder.  
  
        6.1.  By Seller.  Seller shall deliver or cause to be delivered  
    into escrow ("Escrow") with Pacific Northwest Title Insurance Company  
    ("Escrow Holder") on or before the Closing Date the following items:  
  
          (a)  Deed.  A bargain and sale deed, duly executed and  
    acknowledged by Seller (the "Deed"), together with an excise tax  
    affidavit.  
  
          (b)  FIRPTA Affidavit.  A certificate duly executed by Seller,  
    evidencing that Seller is exempt from the withholding requirements of  
    Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code.  
  
          (c)  Certificates of Authority.  Such certificates as are  
    necessary or required by the Escrow Holder to evidence the authority  
    of Seller and its signatories to execute the instruments to be  
    executed by Seller in connection with this transaction.  
  
          (d)  Warranties and Guarantees.  A general assignment, in form  
    and substance acceptable to Buyer, assigning to Buyer the interest of  
    Seller in all manufacturers' warranties and guarantees held by Seller  
    for equipment or products located in the Property to the extent  
    separately assignable to Buyer.  
  
          (e)  Parking Agreement.  A parking agreement for seven reserved  
    parking spaces (with two being oversized for vans) in the Project  
    garage for cost not to exceed $165 per month for a term of one year,  
    renewal at market rates, with such other terms as agreed by the  
    parties. Such parking spaces shall be in proximity to the Community  
    Center elevator location in the garage; the location will be  
    determined in the parking agreement.  
  
        6.2.  Buyer.  Buyer shall sign the excise tax affidavit and the  
    parking agreement and shall deliver the closing costs.  
  
      7.  Close of Escrow.  
  
        7.1.  Time.  Provided that all conditions precedent to Closing  
    have been satisfied or waived, the close of Escrow (the "Closing")  
    shall occur on the date (the "Closing Date") on a date mutually  
    agreed by the parties that is not more than fifteen (15) days  
    following final completion of the Community Center.  When all  
    documents and funds required hereunder have been deposited with  
    Escrow Holder, Escrow Holder shall immediately close Escrow as  
    provided for below.  
  
        7.2.  Procedure.  Escrow Holder shall close Escrow as follows:  
  
          (a)  Obtain the release of the Property from any liens except  
    the Permitted Exceptions;  
  
          (b)  Record the Deed;  
  
          (c)  Issue and deliver the title policy requested by Buyer;  
  
          (d)  Deliver any other documents deposited by Seller into  
    Escrow to Buyer; and  
  
          (e)  Forward to Buyer and Seller, in duplicate, a separate  
    accounting of all funds received and disbursed for each party and  
    copies of all executed and recorded or filed documents deposited into  
    Escrow, with such recording and filing date endorsed thereon.  Escrow  
    Agent shall provide a draft of the settlement statements to the  
    parties three business days before the scheduled Closing Date.  
  
        7.3.  Incorporation of Escrow Instructions.  This Addendum shall  
    serve as escrow instructions, and an executed copy of this Addendum  
    shall be deposited by Buyer with Escrow Holder following its  
    execution.  The parties may execute additional escrow instructions  
    provided that such additional escrow instructions shall not change  
    the terms of this Addendum.  
  
        7.4.  Closing Costs and Prorations.  
  
          (a)  Closing Costs.  Buyer and Seller shall each pay their own  
    attorneys' fees.  Buyer and Seller shall share equally the costs of  
    recording, escrow and the premium for the standard owner's title  
    insurance policy insuring the Deed.  There should be no real estate  
    excise or use taxes payable with respect to the transfer.  
  
          (b)  Prorations.  There will be no prorations.  The Property  
    should not be subject to real estate taxes and will not have  
    commenced operating.  
  
        7.5.  Possession.  Possession of the Property shall be delivered  
    to Buyer upon Closing.  
  
      8.  Brokers.  Neither party had a broker working for it in  
    connection with the transfer of the Property.  Each party shall  
    indemnify the other for any commissions owed with respect to this  
    transaction as a result of the indemnifying party's conduct.  
  
      9.  Environmental Liability and Indemnification.  
  
    9.1  Condition of the Property.  Seller warrants and covenants that:  
    (i) except as expressly and specifically permitted by the Purchase  
    and Sale Agreement for Seller's acquisition of the real property  
    comprising the Property from King County dated March 30, 1995  
    ("Purchase and Sale Agreement") and by the Consent Decree between  
    Metro and the Washington State Department of Ecology referenced in  
    the Purchase and Sale Agreement ("Consent Decree"), no Hazardous  
    Substance is located on or under, or is currently being generated,  
    processed, stored, transported, handled or disposed of at the  
    Project; (ii) Seller shall take no action inconsistent with the  
    Consent Decree; (iii) no Hazardous Substance shall be used in  
    connection with the Project or the operation of the Project except in  
    full compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and prudent  
    construction practices; and (iv) Seller shall not allow or cause, and  
    shall prohibit, the following at the Project: the generation,  
    manufacture, refining, transportation, treatment, storage, handling,  
    disposal, transfer, production, processing or release of Hazardous  
    Substances, except in compliance with all applicable Federal, State  
    and local laws or regulations.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,  
    nothing herein shall make Seller responsible for the acts or  
    omissions of Buyer, its agents, employees, contractors or invitees,  
    or make Seller responsible for discharges, releases, existence or  
    migration of Hazardous Substances from the Property.  
  
    9.2  Buyer Covenants.  Buyer agrees that: (i) it shall take no action  
    inconsistent with the Consent Decree; (ii) Buyer, its agents,  
    employees, contractors and agents shall not use any Hazardous  
    Substance in connection with the Property or the operation of the  
    Property except in full compliance with all applicable laws,  
    regulations, and prudent construction practices; and (iii) Buyer  
    shall not allow or cause, and shall prohibit, the following at the  
    Property:  the generation, manufacture, refining, transportation,  
    treatment, storage, handling, disposal, transfer, production,  
    processing or release of Hazardous Substances, except in compliance  
    with all applicable federal, state and local laws or regulations.  
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall make Buyer  
    responsible for the acts or omissions of Seller, its agents,  
    employees, contractors or invitees, or make Buyer responsible for  
    discharges, releases, existence or migration of Hazardous Substances  
    from any property owned or controlled by Seller but not leased by  
    Buyer (including from the remainder Project, to the extent not caused  
    by Buyer).  
  
    9.3  Definition.  As used herein, the term "Hazardous Substance"  
    means any hazardous, toxic or dangerous substance, waste or material  
    or pollutant or contaminant which is regulated under any federal,  
    state or local statute, ordinance, rule, regulation or other law  
    pertaining to environmental protection, contamination or cleanup,  
    including without limitation any substance, waste or material which  
    is designated as a "Hazardous Substance" or as hazardous, toxic, or  
    dangerous, or as a pollutant or contaminant under the Federal  
    Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, the Federal Water  
    Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. Section 1257 et seq.,  
    the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. Section 2001 et seq., the  
    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act,  
    as amended, 42 U.S.C. 9601, the Toxic Substances Control Act, as  
    amended, 15 U.S.C. Section 2601 et seq., or the Washington Model  
    Toxics Control Act, as amended, RCW Chapter 70.105D, or  Washington  
    Hazardous Waste Management Act, as amended, RCW chapter 70.105,  
    including all regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended or  
    supplemented.  Hazardous Substances also shall include any substance  
    which after being released into the environment and upon exposure  
    will or may reasonably be anticipated to cause death, disease,  
    behavior abnormalities, cancer and/or genetic abnormalities.  
  
    9.4  Environmental Indemnity.  Seller shall defend, hold harmless and  
    indemnify the Buyer from and against any and all claims, causes of  
    actions, judgments, settlements, costs, penalties, fees, liens, and  
    damages resulting from (i) any breach of Seller's foregoing  
    representations and warranties, including all reasonable attorney's  
    fees and costs incurred by the Buyer; (ii) any and all costs,  
    expenses, penalties and damages incurred as a result of Hazardous  
    Substances being located on, found on or being remedied at, cleaned  
    up from or removed from any other properties where such Hazardous  
    Substances came from activities on or contamination from the Project  
    or the real property upon which the Project is located; and (iii) any  
    and all costs, expenses, penalties, damages, and remediation, and  
    cleanup costs, incurred as a result of Hazardous Substances being  
    located on, in, at or under, or being found within the Project.  
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller's indemnity shall exclude  
    matters caused by any breach of Buyer's covenants contained in  
    Section 9.2.  
  
    9.5  Notification and Cleanup.  Seller shall immediately notify the  
    Buyer in writing if Seller (i) becomes aware that the Project or any  
    adjacent property is being or has been contaminated with Hazardous  
    Substances, (ii) receives any notice of or becomes aware of any  
    actual or alleged violation with respect to the Project of any  
    federal, state or local statute, ordinance, rule, regulation or other  
    law pertaining to Hazardous Substances or any of the obligations set  
    forth in Section 9.1 of this Addendum, or (iii) becomes aware of any  
    lien or action with respect to any of the foregoing.  Seller shall,  
    at its sole expense, promptly take all necessary and reasonable  
    actions to comply with all laws, and with all orders, decrees or  
    judgments of governmental authorities or courts that have  
    jurisdiction over Hazardous Substances, and shall further pay or  
    cause to be paid all cleanup, administrative, enforcement and other  
    costs of governmental agencies if obligated to do so by contract or  
    by law.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall make  
    Seller responsible for the acts or omissions of Buyer, its agents,  
    employees, contractors or invitees, or make Seller responsible for  
    discharges, releases, existence or migration of Hazardous Substances  
    from the Property caused by the Buyer, its agents, employees,  
    contractors or invitees.  
  
    9.6  Survival of Environmental Provisions.  This Section 9 shall  
    survive the expiration of this Addendum and shall survive closing and  
    shall not be merged in any deed delivered by Seller to Buyer at  
    closing, the termination of Buyer, or the Buyer's exercise of any of  
    its rights, including foreclosure, under the Deed of Trust involving  
    Buyer and Seller relating to the Project.  
  
      10.  Default; Remedies. Specific Performance.  This Addendum  
    pertains to the conveyance of real property, the unique nature of  
    which is hereby acknowledged by the parties.  Consequently, in the  
    event of a breach or default in or of any provision of this Addendum  
    by either party, the nondefaulting party shall have, in addition to a  
    claim for damages for such breach or default, and the right to  
    specific performance of this Addendum.  
  
    20  
  
    Attachment 1 to IDVS2ord  
  
          1  Attachment 1 to IDVS2ord  
  
    E-5  
  
    Exhibit E to Attachment 1  
  
    Exhibit A  
  
    Seattle Parks and Recreation Department  
  
    &  
  
    Seattle Chinatown International District  
  
    Preservation and Development Authority  
  
    1999 Community Center Levy  
  
    INTERNATIONAL DISTRICT/CHINATOWN  
  
    COMMUNITY CENTER  
  
    Final Design Program  
  
    Revised May 16, 2003  
  
    I. INTRODUCTION  
  
    A.  INTENT  
  
    1. Project: The intent of this project is to build a new facility  
    that allows users a space for recreation, meetings and general  
    activities.  
  
    2. Funding and Project Completion: This project responds to the 1999  
    vote of citizens of Seattle to develop a community center in the  
    International District. Funding for this project will come from the  
    1999 City proposition augmented by other funds to be provided by the  
    City and by the community.  Construction is expected to begin in the  
    summer of 2001 and will be completed in 2004.  
  
    3. Scope: The Scope of this Project consists of constructing the new  
    International District Community Center as part of the International  
    District Village Square II (IDVS II) project.  IDVS II will be a  
    mixed-use multi-story facility with family housing, a community  
    center, a branch library, office and retail spaces and parking.  The  
    Seattle Chinatown-International District Preservation and Development  
    Authority (SCIDPDA) are the developers of this facility.  
  
    II. PROJECT BACKGROUND  
  
    A.  LOCATION: The community center will be located in the second  
    phase building of the International District Village Square, at 8th  
    Ave. S. and S. Dearborn Street.  
  
    B. HISTORY: The International District has no public community center  
    or recreational facility and has stated in various places including  
    the adopted Neighborhood Plan and the Neighborhood Action Agenda that  
    it desires a community recreation facility.  
  
    In November of 1999 the citizens of Seattle passed Proposition 1  
    funding the development and expansion of 11 community centers.  
    Proposition 1 provides for $2,100,000 of funding for the  
    International District Community Center to be built by the SCIDPDA as  
    a part of IDVS II.  
  
    C. SITE DESCRIPTION: The site is located in the southeast edge of the  
    International District.  Its location on the half block surrounded by  
    S. Lane St. to the north, 8th Ave. S. to the east, S. Dearborn St. to  
    the south, and an alley to the west.  The present site is a surface  
    parking lot, which serves the Phase I Village Square project across  
    8th Ave. S. to the east.  
  
    The site is 120' x 228' and approximately 228,360 square feet in  
    area.  The site slopes down from the northeast corner of 8th Ave. S.  
    and S. Lane St. approximately 16 feet to the southwest corner along  
    S. Dearborn St.  The slope along 8th Ave. S. is 12 feet from S. Lane  
    down to S. Dearborn.  
  
    On S. Dearborn, there are southbound and northbound off-ramps from  
    Interstate 5.  There is also a northbound on-ramp.  As 8th Ave. S. is  
    the first vehicular entrance to the International District for  
    traffic westbound on S. Dearborn, the site will help solidify the  
    southeast edge of the district.  
  
    D. CURRENT USE: The site is currently used as a surface parking lot,  
    which serves the Phase I Village Square project across 8th Ave. S. to  
    the east.  
  
    E. EXISTING CONDITIONS: The site is paved with asphalt and is fenced  
    on all four sides.  There are no structures on the site.  
  
    III.  PROJECT COMPONENTS  
  
    A. OBJECTIVES: The community center project components have been  
    assembled to meet the program needs of the International District  
    community center and include the Department's standards in terms of  
    approximate square footage, intended use of the space, functional  
    relationship to other spaces, and any special requirements which the  
    space or that portion of the structure may have.  Total programmed  
    space, including internal circulation, is approximately 15,324 square  
    feet.  
  
    Summary of Building Space Allocation  
  
    Space    Square Footage  
  
    Gymnasium size     5,814  
  
    Gymnasium Storage    373  
  
    Second Floor Foyer    483  
  
    Multi-Purpose Room    2,097  
  
    Multi-Purpose Room Storage  186  
  
    Kitchen    317  
  
    Lobby    295  
  
    Offices    324  
  
    Reception    215  
  
    Lounge Area    251  
  
    Changing Room    142  
  
    Restrooms/Locker Room    471  
  
    Garbage area    100  
  
    Janitor Room    249  
  
    Electrical Room    116  
  
    Communication Room    77  
  
    Halls/Walls/Stairs/Shafts    3814  
  
    Total Area    15,269  
  
    B. ELEMENTS  
  
    1.  Gymnasium  
  
    Activities  
  
    The gymnasium is seen as the large multi-purpose space within the new  
    community center.  It will serve the active recreation requirements  
    such as basketball, volleyball and league sports.  It will also be a  
    large community room to accommodate social events such as dances,  
    community meetings, political gatherings, etc.  First priority uses  
    would be those activities that support the surrounding community  
    rather than citywide activities such as league play.  
  
    a. Provide regulation basketball court of 84'x 50' on total gym floor  
    of 94' x 60'.  Provide unobstructed ceiling height of 25' minimum.  
    Gym entry on shorter walls must be at corners; entry along longer  
    walls must be at corners or middle of gym length.  
  
    b.  Intended use of proposed space: league capabilities for  
    basketball, volleyball, indoor soccer, special events and drop-in  
    use.  Other intended uses include dances and receptions.  
  
    c.  Relationship to other spaces: restrooms/locker rooms will be on  
    first floor; storage for all equipment and other activity equipment  
    shall be adjacent to gym; main internal access point should require  
    participant to pass in view of the reception desk; Drinking fountain  
    should be available outside of gym convenient to players, unobtrusive  
    to other guests.  
  
    d.  General requirements: (Roofing revised for this project- see  
    construction documents) Parks Department requires gym floor to be No.  
    2 maple strip with a floating floor and plywood diaphragm system;  
    floors shall be designed to allow air movement underneath.  Minimize  
    mechanical and equipment noise, such as from fans.  Noise that comes  
    from the gym must be contained within the gym.  
  
    Day lighting is important but must be provided without glare.  Must  
    have ability to darken gym for films and events.  The gym will be  
    used for a variety of functions requiring different lighting levels.  
    Lighting should be designed to accommodate the different uses.  Staff  
    will control lighting levels.  
  
    All glazing in gym must be unbreakable or wire reinforced (incl.  
    Backboards).  Double door access from Foyer is required.  Seating  
    will be portable seating.  
  
    Equipment  
  
    * Provide conduit for scoreboard and scoring station  
  
    * PA system as part of building communications system  
  
    * Camera for security surveillance from front reception area  
  
    * White board/bulletin board  
  
    * Wall protection mats at basketball backboard locations  
  
    * Protected clock  
  
    * Two swing-away basketball backboards and nets for full size court  
  
    * Four swing-away basketball backboards and nets for cross court play  
  
    * Volleyball and badminton standards in recessed mounts  
  
    Special Requirements  
  
    * The gym should have 24 metal halide fixtures (dimmable with  
    separate switch levels for energy efficiency), light colored exterior  
    walls, insulation and water proofing, a moveable curtain for dividing  
    Gym in half, and more storage with shelving.  
  
    * Staff will control lighting.  
  
    * Double door access (removable astragal OK) from lobby is required.  
  
    Finishes  
  
    Walls: Durable, hard surfaces that can withstand impact and abuse.  
    Use of MDO board is acceptable.  Acoustical panels mounted 10 feet  
    above the floor should be considered  
  
    Ceilings: 25' minimum clear height, the structure can be exposed  
    above this point  
  
    Wall padding in gym- 12' of padding only under baskets.  For all  
    remaining services use MDO painted plywood surface with 8' height  
    coverage.  
  
    Doors: Wood, stained- Frames, metal  
  
    2.  Multipurpose Meeting Space  
  
    This room will be a high quality banquet/rental facility and is the  
    main gathering area of the center for a variety of events.  
  
    a.  Provide approximately 2,097 square feet in area; shall  
    accommodate 40 - 50 people comfortably for any of the uses listed  
    below.  
  
    b.  Intended use of proposed space: receptions, banquets, dance  
    classes, aerobics, weddings, movies, etc.  Ability to subdivide this  
    space into smaller space to be utilized for small group meetings and  
    activities.  
  
    c.  Relationship to other spaces: the kitchen shall be adjacent to  
    the multi purpose room for food functions and accessible with a pass  
    through window and door; restrooms shall be easily accessible to  
    multipurpose, main entry to multipurpose space shall require the  
    public to pass or be seen from the reception desk; storage space for  
    chairs (on dollies) and tables shall be directly adjacent to  
    multipurpose room.  
  
    d.  Special requirements: Floating wood floors. Acoustical treatment  
    between adjacent rooms and interior rooms, flexible lighting design  
    to accommodate various activities.  Flexible mechanical design to  
    accommodate various activities.  Small maintenance closet, 50SF.  One  
    coffee-bar sink and counter on opposite room of kitchen.  Divide  
    storage in two units, placed at other ends of the room.  Provide  
    protection wainscoting inside rooms.  Bumpers and corner guards to  
    protect corners and cabinets from chair and table dollies.  This room  
    will be dividable into two spaces with a moveable, acoustical wall  
    (Hufcor model #7650-7660 or equivalent).  Walls-mirrors on one or two  
    walls, acoustical treatment on others.  Floors-maple: similar to gym.  
    Ceiling will be acoustical treated.  Cabinets will be plastic  
    laminate.  Doors will wood laminate.  Utilize natural light with  
    shades.  
  
    Fixed Equipment  
  
    * Coat hooks at entry  
  
    * Floor outlets as required for flexibility (waterproofed)  
  
    * Projection area on wall  
  
    * Clock  
  
    * 2 bulletin boards 4' x 8'  
  
    3. Restroom/Lockers & ADA Changing Room/Shower  
  
    a.  Provide men's and women's restroom with approximately 471 square  
    feet.  
  
    b.  Relationship to other spaces: restrooms should be located for  
    easy access from all activities.  Entries for the restroom area  
    should be visible from the main reception staff area.  Provide one  
    ADA Key-lock changing room/shower.  
  
    c.  Special requirements: meet all handicapped accessibility codes;  
    quantity of fixtures per code; Department prefers American Standard  
    porcelain fixtures and Simmons tempering valves on showers; all  
    fixtures to be designed for maximum water conservation.  
  
    Fixed Materials and Equipment  
  
    * Wall mounted toilets (water saving type)  
  
    * Wall mounted urinals (water saving type)  
  
    * Lavatories and countertops  
  
    * Mirrors  
  
    * Paper towel dispensers  
  
    * Hot air dryers  
  
    * Trash receptacles  
  
    * Liquid soap dispensers  
  
    * Coat hooks in each stall  
  
    * Grab bars in handicap stalls  
  
    * Toilet seat cover dispenser  
  
    * Diaper changing stations in both the men's and the women's toilets  
  
    Special Requirements  
  
    * All plumbing fixtures must be accessible from behind for repairs  
    and maintenance  
  
    * Handicapped accessible  
  
    * Give special consideration to children and seniors using the  
    center- family changing room  
  
    Finishes  
  
    * Floors: Ceramic tile  
  
    * Walls: Ceramic tile  
  
    * Enamel paint on other surfaces  
  
    4.  Kitchen  
  
    The kitchen is a multi-use area for heating and serving food, and  
    conducting small cooking classes.  It is not intended to be a  
    production kitchen.  Commercial equipment should be used in order to  
    stand up to the many users with minimal supervision.  Operation of  
    equipment should be easy to learn. Tamper resistant options should be  
    added when equipment is ordered.  
  
    a.  Provide approximately 317 square feet.  
  
    b.  Intended use of proposed space: potluck type functions, large  
    feed type dinners; include space and equipment capabilities for  
    heating food and preparation areas to service receptions or banquets  
    of 50 people; floor space and counter space for potential cooking  
    classes of up to 8-10 students of varying age groups (youth to  
    senior).  
  
    c.  Relationships to other space: kitchen shall be directly adjacent  
    to multi-purpose room with a pass through window for serving.  The  
    solid roll up door is to provide a sound barrier and is required.  
    Separate door from corridor or lobby to kitchen shall be designed  
    independently from the multi purpose room; exterior access is not a  
    desired relationship due to potential security and vandalism  
    problems, but should be convenient for delivery and garbage removal.  
  
    The serving counter layout should stress flexibility. Mobile serving  
    unites which lock together is suggested so the equipment can be moved  
    to a larger area to accommodate large gatherings.  Electrical  
    receptacles should be provided for this at other locations.  
  
    An electric range and convection oven are required for cooking.  
  
    A commercial door-type dish washing machine should be provided.  The  
    kitchen should have two commercial reach-in refrigerators and one  
    reach-in freezer.  Half-doors with locks for added security and  
    flexibility for multiple users is required.  
  
    The area must include a preparation sink.  The hand sink must have  
    permanently mounted paper towel and soap dispensers.  Infrared on/off  
    faucet is beneficial on hand sinks.  Water temperature cannot exceed  
    120 degrees Fahrenheit.  Garbage disposal in one of the sinks.  
  
    Special requirements: Pantry storage in upper cabinets with high  
    quality locks, 18 inches and 12 inches deep.  1-2 self-priming floor  
    drains, large capacity.  Counter at pass-through is to be 2 or 3  
    rollout serving units with lockable casters.  
  
    Storage Requirements  
  
    Provide cabinet and counter space for equipment listed above.  
  
    Special Requirements  
  
    Pantry storage in upper cabinets with Best locks,  
  
    18 inches and 12 inches deep.  
  
    * 1-2 self-priming floor drains, large capacity  
  
    * Counter at pass-through could be 2 or 3 roll-out serving units with  
    lockable casters  
  
    Finishes  
  
    * Floor: Clay tile, not sheet goods, floor slopes to floor drains  
  
    * Walls: Enamel paint or stainless steel over moisture resistant GWB  
  
    * Ceiling: Paint over moisture resistant GWB with flush 2 x 4  
    fluorescent lights  
  
    * Doors: Wood, solid core with metal frame  
  
    Critical Dimensions  
  
    9 feet minimum ceiling height  
  
    5.  Administrative Area/Office Space (2)  
  
    a.  Provide approximately 324 square feet.  
  
    b.  Desired use of proposed space: offices and desk space for Sr.  
    Recreation Supervisor and Recreation Supervisor, file cabinets;  
    storage of some equipment, first aid items, supplies, and personal  
    belongings (coats, shoes, gym clothes) of staff; good visual access  
    to reception and possibly gym or multi purpose.  
  
    c.  Relationship to other spaces: close proximity to reception desk,  
    lobby, and public office; must be accessible from public office.  
  
    d.  Special requirements: the Supervisors must be able to see the  
    front desk, but still be able to maintain privacy in their office to  
    conduct business, small staff meetings or address personnel issues;  
    space should view gym and multipurpose room entrance for supervisory  
    purposes during times of limited staff on duty.  
  
    Storage Requirements  
  
    * Securable  
  
    * Coat closet  
  
    * Office supplies  
  
    * First aid items  
  
    Special Requirements  
  
    * Acoustical privacy  
  
    * In-floor "money safe" in recreation manager's office  
  
    Finishes  
  
    * Floor: Carpet  
  
    * Walls: GWB with paint  
  
    * Ceiling: ACT  
  
    * Doors: Wood solid with metal frame  
  
    6.  Reception/Lobby (Waiting and Lounge)  
  
    The lobby incorporates three distinct areas: the entrance, the lounge  
    area, and the reception area:  
  
    The entrance needs to be clearly visible from the outside and provide  
    an open inviting approach to the Center.  
  
    The lounge area should have a warm and inviting quality, and should  
    be located near the reception desk.  Comfortable seating for users  
    and a place for display of the community bulleting board should be  
    prominent.  
  
    The reception area should be clearly visible from the entry and  
    lobby, and needs to support interaction between staff and visitors.  
    The reception desk is the control point for the Center and will  
    provide initial greeting, information and assistance to people  
    entering the facility, checking-out materials; monitor the public  
    coming and going.  Lobby to be used for waiting and lounge area;  
    lobby is the major area for exhibiting of trophies, awards,  
    announcements, or seasonal displays; vending machine area (two  
    machines) and public telephone.  Staff at the reception desk will  
    answer the phones, direct visitors, monitor building security, and  
    handle program sign up sheets, etc.  A staff work area with computer  
    station will be part of the reception desk.  The reception area  
    should have visual control over the facility's entrance and primary  
    entrances to public places throughout the building.  
  
    a.  The lobby conveys the initial impression of the facility and its  
    programs and services.  It needs to impart a warm welcoming feeling  
    of friendship and neighborliness and be thought of as the "living  
    room" of the community.  It should easily accommodate ambulatory and  
    non-ambulatory visitors, and be a place for socializing.  
  
    c.  Relationship to other spaces: main access point to the community  
    center and this shall "service" the other spaces; shall relate well  
    to design, finish, and sequence of main exterior entry.  
  
    d.  Special requirements: Entry-Slip resistant entry flooring; well  
    lit for high visibility after sunset.  Lounge area should have  
    adequate lighting for display and storage areas, daylight when  
    possible.  Easily maintained carpeting at seating areas.  Use tile or  
    similar type flooring at primary circulation areas. Provide coat  
    racks and possibly open shelves for books, etc., near the reception  
    center.  
  
    e.  The exterior entry scale and materials should complement the  
    interior scale and materials.  The typical entry sequence at a  
    community center is: enter the front door; pass by the front desk;  
    then proceed to activity.  However, many times the lobby is used as a  
    waiting area by all age groups.  Thus, the lobby should not only be  
    designed to accommodate the entry sequence, but provide for waiting  
    by utilizing comfortable, well planned seating and display areas.  
  
    Fixed Materials and Equipment  
  
    Entry:  
  
    * Recessed walk-off mat inside door, grates on the outside.  
  
    * Floor should be on easily cleaned hard surface.  
  
    Lounge:  
  
    * Floor, carpet or tile. Something with long wear cycle.  
  
    Reception:  
  
    * Telephones, 1 for each workstation.  This is dependent on layout.  
  
    * PA, security, and lighting control for entire building  
  
    * Computer terminal  
  
    * Storage as required for pamphlets, brochures and office supplies,  
    and sports equipment for checkout (basketballs, pool equipment, etc.)  
  
    7.  Gymnasium Storage  
  
    a.  Provide approximately 373 square feet for gym storage.  
  
    b.  Desired use of proposed space: the equipment stored includes  
    equipment for active sports, such as volleyball standards, indoor  
    soccer goals, possibly gymnastic equipment, balls and nets.  
  
    c.  Relationship to other spaces: shall be adjacent to gymnasium;  
    should be separate from mechanical rooms or electrical panels.  
  
    d.  Storage requirements: some hooks and wall mounts, standards for  
    volleyball, pickle ball etc., balls, holiday items, special event  
    storage boxes and lockable bins for equipment.  
  
    e.  Special requirements: Concrete floor threshold should be even  
    with gym floor.  Walls durable and impact resistant.  Ceiling is GWB  
    and painted.  Doors are to be securable with six foot opening.  Any  
    built in storage system should be plywood, stud, or other durable  
    material.  
  
    8.  Multi-purpose Room Storage  
  
    a.  Provide approximately 186 square feet adjacent to the  
    multipurpose room.  
  
    b.  Desired use of proposed space: storage of craft supplies,  
  
    games, tables, chairs, office supplies, etc., but with existing  
    standards of storage equipment, such as chair dollies, folding  
    portable tables, stackable chairs or tables; also may be used for  
    storage of dance or aerobics equipment.  
  
    c.  Relationship to other spaces: some storage need and adjacent to  
    multi purpose room for tables and chairs; should be kept separate  
    from mechanical rooms or electrical panel rooms if possible.  
  
    d.  Special requirements: to include adequate double door locking  
    cabinets or shelving.  
  
    9. Custodial Storage and Office  
  
    a. Provide approximately 249 square feet.  
  
    b. Desired use of proposed space: space for custodial use and  
    custodial supplies; provide shelving and equipment; space for one  
    custodian to move freely within shelving, fixed equipment, supplies,  
    and moveable custodial equipment (buckets, brooms, mops, etc.);  
    should be kept separate from any mechanical equipment rooms or  
    electrical panel areas.  
  
    c.  Special requirements: fixed equipment, such as floor slop sink,  
    custodial use plumbing fixtures; floor drain; shelving and storage  
    space for custodial supplies and equipment of a wide variety of  
    sizes.  Divided this space into separate rooms to allow counter space  
    or space for small table for custodian to take breaks, fill out paper  
    work, or use as work bench; proper ventilation; proper lighting to  
    allow space to be used as work space as well as storage space.  Floor  
    sink is preferably in a separate area from the desk.  
  
    Relationships  
  
    Office space must be a separate room from sinks and chemical storage.  
  
    Materials and Equipment  
  
    * Double size lockable wall cabinet with shelves for storage of  
    chemicals and paint  
  
    * Hooks on at least one wall for hanging mops and brooms  
  
    * Shelving on every available wall, should be reinforced for storage  
    of heavy items  
  
    * Floor sink  
  
    Special Requirements  
  
    * No water heater in this space  
  
    * No recycling in this space  
  
    * Maximize wall area for shelving  
  
    Finishes  
  
    * VCT  
  
    10. Mechanical/Electrical Room  
  
    a.  Provide approximately 116 & 77 square feet or as deemed necessary  
    according to equipment to be used.  
  
    b.  Desired use of proposed space: mechanical equipment room and  
    electrical panel boxes; space should not be designed' in hopes of use  
    as storage space.  
  
    c.  Relationship to other spaces: locate as needed to best  
    accommodate location of mechanical/electrical equipment.  
  
    11. Circulation  
  
    a.  Provide sufficient internal circulation space for access to each  
    of the various programmed areas in the center.  The public will  
    heavily use these areas.  Materials should be durable and need  
    minimal maintenance.  They should be easy to clean or easily  
    replaceable.  Provide niche for food vending machines (min. 2) should  
    be located along main corridor, where they can be supervised.  
  
    Finishes  
  
    * Floors: Unit tile  
  
    * Walls: Durable materials, wainscot from base to chair rail to  
    resist denting  
  
    * Ceilings: ACT or GWB  
  
    IV. DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS  
  
    The Department's standard specifications and details should be used  
    where appropriate.  
  
    A. The building should be designated for a useful life of 40 years.  
  
    B. Spaces in the building shall be designed with the flexibility of  
    multiple use or easily adaptive use for the future in mind.  
  
    C. The building and spaces shall be designed for maximum energy  
    efficiency.  
  
    D. The building's systems and components shall be designed or  
    selected to be compatible to the skills and preferences of the  
    Facilities Maintenance staff and custodial staff.  
  
    E. The building and all site improvements shall be handicapped  
    accessible as per codes.  
  
    F. Improvements to visual accessibility to the building, and visual  
    emphasis of the entry shall be considered in the site plan of the  
    building.  Good visibility from the streets is desired to deter  
    vandalism, graffiti, and security problems.  
  
    G.  Provide drop-off zone at entry that is ADA accessible.  
  
    H.  Sonitrol security will be provided with cameras for areas that  
    are not viewed by front reception.  
  
    V. BUDGET  
  
    Funding comes from the 1999 Community Center Levy in the amount of  
    $2.1M.  Additional funding comes from the Pro Parks Opportunity Fund  
    in the amount of $250k.  
  
    VI. SCHEDULE  
  
    Planning 2001  
  
    Design 2002  
  
    Construction 2003-2004  
  
    Completion 2004  
  
    VII. PROPOSED PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT REVIEW PROCESS  
  
    A. PUBLIC MEETINGS -  
  
    According to the Department's Public Notification Draft Guidelines, a  
    public meeting should be conducted to review the Design Program  
    (completed).  At least one public meeting is recommended during the  
    design phase following preparation of preliminary or schematic  
    documents and cost estimates (completed) and one public meeting  
    during the construction document phase before construction start  
    (completed).  
  
    B.  MAIL NOTIFICATION - For general announcement, 30 day mailed  
    notice to residents within 300 feet from site.  
  
    1.  Interested Organizations  
  
    Community Action Partnership  
  
    International Community Health Services  
  
    International District Housing Alliance  
  
    Wing Luke Asian Museum  
  
    International District Emergency Center  
  
    Chinatown Chamber of Commerce  
  
    Interim Community Development Association  
  
    International District Business Improvement Area  
  
    Chinese Information and Service Center  
  
    Denise Louie Education Center  
  
    Washington API Families Against Substance Abuse  
  
    International Special Review District (City of Seattle: Urban  
    Conservation Division, coordinator  
  
    2.  Surrounding Neighborhood - See above MAIL NOTIFICATION.  
  
    C.  SIGNS - Two project signs will be posted on the site, one along  
    S. Dearborn St. and one along 8th Ave. S. before the first public  
    meeting.  
  
    D. INTERNET - City Website Bulletin Board notice and update every  
    month.  
  
    http://www.ci.seattle.wa.us/parks/Centers/comcenlevyprog99.htm  
  
    E.  WRITTEN AND DISTRIBUTED PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENTS  
  
    NW Asian Weekly  
  
    NW Chinese Post  
  
    International Examiner  
  
    Beacon Hill News  
  
    Filipino American Herald  
  
    F. PROJECT IMPACTS  
  
    The only anticipated impacts will be those associated with the  
    construction and the reduction of the total amount of parking spaces  
    at this site.  
  
    H. PERMITS  
  
    All permits for this project will be obtained by SCIDPDA  
  
    I. COMPLIANCE & STANDARDS  
  
    This project must comply with the Parks, City of Seattle Building  
    Code and DCLU standards.  
  
    END  
  
    14  
  
    1  
  
    Exhibit A to Attachment 1  
  
    INTERNATIONAL DISTRICT/CHINATOWN COMMUNITY CENTER - WC 482  
  
    Final Design Program  
  
    Exhibit B: Community Center Design Standards  
  
    1999 COMMUNITY CENTER LEVY PROGRAM  
  
    Appendix:  
  
    Referenced Standards  
  
    Belltown Community Center  
  
    High Point Community Center Addition  
  
    International District Community Center  
  
    Jefferson Park Community Center Addition  
  
    Laurelhurst Community Center Addition & Renovation  
  
    Montlake Community Center Renovation  
  
    Northgate Community Center  
  
    Sand Point Community Center Renovation  
  
    Southwest Community Center Addition  
  
    Van Asselt Community Center Addition  
  
    Yesler Community Center  
  
    June 12, 2002  
  
    1999 COMMUNITY CENTER LEVY PROGRAM  
  
    Design Handbook  
  
      Community Center Design Principles  
  
      Community Center Building Program Template  
  
      Community Center Design Standards  
  
    Erin Devoto, Director, Planning and Development Division  
  
    Mark J. Johnson, Project Manager, Planning and Development Division  
  
    Tim Motzer, Project Manager, Planning and Development Division  
  
    Toby Ressler, Project Manager, Planning and Development Division  
  
    June 12, 2002  
  
    1999 COMMUNITY CENTER LEVY PROGRAM  
  
    Design Handbook  
  
        Community Center Design Principles  
  
        Community Center Building Program Template  
  
      Community Center Design Standards  
  
    1999 COMMUNITY CENTER LEVY PROGRAM  
  
    Design Principles  
  
    Belltown Community Center  
  
    High Point Community Center Addition  
  
    International District Community Center  
  
    Jefferson Park Community Center Addition  
  
    Laurelhurst Community Center Addition & Renovation  
  
    Montlake Community Center Renovation  
  
    Northgate Community Center  
  
    Sand Point Community Center Renovation  
  
    Southwest Community Center Addition  
  
    Van Asselt Community Center Addition  
  
    Yesler Community Center  
  
    June 12, 2002  
  
    Community  
  
    The City of Seattle Parks and Recreation Department's community  
    centers are year-round gathering places that welcome every member of  
    each community in Seattle.  Their spaces-both inside and outside-are  
    part of the public realm, supporting activities of all types,  
    appealing to all ages and inclinations.  A community center is more  
    than a collection of rooms:  parents hold impromptu conferences in  
    its lobby, adolescents throw balls against its walls, and young  
    children play in the protected alcoves formed by its intersecting  
    volumes.  The building and its immediate surroundings should  
    demonstrate respectful use of the earth's resources, offering the  
    visitor a sense of the interconnectedness of life's many forms.  The  
    visitor to a particular community center should find revealed in its  
    design the connections to place that bind the site to the geography  
    of the city.  
  
    Context  
  
    Community centers are frequently located in public parks.  Yet, as  
    Seattle develops more urban neighborhoods and its density increases,  
    some community centers will be built within larger developments of  
    housing or commercial space.  Singular buildings sited within large  
    open spaces or landscapes are fundamentally different than public  
    spaces embedded within highly urban development. The Community Center  
    Design Principles (Design Principles) developed by the City of  
    Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation (Parks) will apply  
    primarily to these single buildings set into a landscape.  Community  
    centers inserted into the urban fabric-those located in larger  
    buildings or co-located with other public institutions-will likely  
    follow design guidelines and principles developed by Seattle's  
    DCLU/City Design and the Seattle Design Commission for public  
    building types requiring high levels of access and identity that are  
    located in high-density developments.  
  
    Resources for Design  
  
    Parks' Design Principles are intended to guide both designers and  
    those reviewing proposed designs in thinking about:  
  
    * how a community center should serve its community,  
  
    * the character of the places and spaces that compose it, and  
  
    * the values it should embody.  
  
    These Design Principles have been developed in response to requests  
    from both project designers and the Seattle Design Commission for  
    written guidelines governing the broader issues of design for  
    community centers.  Two other documents will guide other aspects of  
    the design of Parks' community centers:  
  
    * The 1999 Building Program Template describes the types, number, and  
    sizes of the various rooms in a community center and their  
    relationships to one another, as well as the various systems that  
    will serve the building and its users.  
  
    * The Community Center Design Standards give designers technical  
    direction in specifying materials, finishes, systems, and products by  
    referencing specific Parks Standards for these items.  
  
    The three documents, taken together with input from the community and  
    members of the Project Advisory Team, should provide guidance in  
    addressing design issues of all sorts-big-picture principles to  
    narrow-scope specifics-for users, reviewers, designers, and  
    interested citizens.  
  
    Connections  
  
    Public parks are places for renewal, refreshment, and replenishment  
    of the self; parks are also places that should demonstrate our care  
    for the environment and its restoration.  A public park is an  
    aggregation of public places, both in the landscape and within built  
    structures.  A community center should create spaces for public use  
    in the way the building meets the surrounding landscape--both inside  
    and outside.  
  
    Typically, community center buildings have been object buildings set  
    in the landscape.  In this case, the building itself should serve as  
    a sign:  here is a place for community gathering.  The building  
    should organize the spaces around it, and could provide a focal point  
    for activities in the landscape of the park as well as in the  
    surrounding neighborhood.  The community center building and its  
    surrounding garden and landscaped areas should represent the  
    institution of the city in its forms and materials:  
  
    * shapes and configurations of building masses that welcome the  
    approaching visitor as one of the community;  
  
    * materials that endure, yet show the passage of time;  
  
    * plantings that grow and develop through the years, paralleling the  
    succession of human generations, each one nurturing its successor  
    through the years.  
  
    The community center building's siting should develop potential  
    relationships of the site to the immediate neighborhood and to other  
    areas and aspects of the city by means of physical connections and  
    views.  Physical connections should knit the building into the  
    structure of the neighborhood's fabric, while its architectural  
    character should make clear that it welcomes all residents of the  
    city.  Functionally, connections should provide easy access to the  
    community center for visitors who arrive by bus, car, or bicycle, and  
    for those who come there on foot.  Access for emergency vehicles  
    should be straightforward.  While meeting all requirements of the  
    Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) legislation, our community  
    centers should reflect the spirit of universal access in developing  
    specific design solutions:  allow all building users to move through  
    space with dignity and ease, providing equivalent means of access for  
    those who are disabled in one way or another.  
  
    Views from the community center are one way in which the  
    institution's connection to other aspects of the city are made  
    visible, as well as delighting the viewer.  Views of the building  
    from afar should also be considered by the designers for they create  
    the civic image of the institution for many who may never actually  
    enter the building.  
  
    Articulation  
  
    Up close, the community center building's interior spaces should be  
    indicated on the exterior, revealing-by means of massing, openings,  
    material detailing, and literal transparency-the human activity  
    within.  The building's articulation and its placement within the  
    landscape should create outdoor "rooms."  The designers should give  
    character to these exterior spaces by means of their degree of  
    enclosure, the textures and tones of the building's exterior  
    materials, and the choice of plantings that meet the building's edge.  
  
    Inside the building, space should be developed in a way that places  
    are made for the individual, for the group, and for gatherings of the  
    community.  A chair placed in an alcove with a window nearby might  
    make a place for the individual to read in the daylight and to feel  
    at home.  The group plays 3-on-3 basketball in the community center's  
    gymnasium.  The community gathers in the multi-purpose room to share  
    a meal, prepared in the well-equipped kitchen adjoining.  
  
    Sensory Delight  
  
    The community center building and surrounding outdoor areas should  
    engage all the senses of the visitor, recognizing and honoring the  
    diversity of such a building's users:  
  
    * Our sense of spatiality should be engaged by a play and counter-  
    play of spaces:  high and low, extensive and contained, plushly-  
    fitted and of a spare economy.  
  
    * Our capacity for reading the thermal environment should be  
    addressed by outdoor spaces that trap the sun's heat on cool spring  
    and fall days, spaces that give welcome shade in summer, and indoor  
    spaces of temperate comfort juxtaposed to the wet winds of the  
    Northwest winter immediately outside.  
  
    * Our perceptions of sound should be pleasurably stimulated by  
    careful design of the acoustic environment:  rooms of quiet in which  
    sound quickly decays, rooms alive with sounds of games and play, and  
    outdoor spaces enclosed with surfaces that capture the more distant  
    sounds of play and work.  
  
    * The plantings around the community center should reward us with  
    their scents and flavors, especially with fruiting trees and shrubs.  
    Underfoot, we might crush the leaves of the wooly thyme, releasing  
    its pungent scent.  Overhead, the autumn-yellow leaves of the gingko  
    might remind us of the season with their freshly-baked-sugar-cookie  
    aroma.  
  
    Summary  
  
    In summary, these design principles offer a way to develop the  
    community center site and the community center building built upon it  
    so as to serve and delight those who use them, and to model and  
    embody appropriate relationships between people and between humankind  
    and the earth's other inhabitants.  
  
    Other Resources  
  
    Additional resources that may aid the designer or reviewer of a  
    community center project have been developed by other departments and  
    groups within city government.  The Seattle Design Commission's  
    Handbook (version 10.01) offers a number of useful design principles  
    for capital improvement projects undertaken by the City.  They  
    include the following:  
  
    * Projects shall have a civic scale and character.  
  
    * Projects shall express the city's socio-cultural identity and  
    diversity.  
  
    * Projects shall be sustainable over time.  
  
    Designers and reviewers alike should refer to the Handbook for more  
    detailed explanations of these principles.  
  
    Seattle's Department of Construction and Land Use contains within its  
    organization the City Design group that supports the work of the  
    Design Commission and the neighborhood Design Review Boards.  City  
    Design has developed Design Review:  Guidelines for Multifamily &  
    Commercial Buildings (rev. November 1998, and herein after referred  
    to as Guidelines) to guide the review of private-sector projects.  
    Nevertheless, a number of these design guidelines are applicable to  
    the design of Parks' community centers.  Of particular application  
    are the following guidelines, arranged in the order in which they  
    appear in the Guidelines:  
  
    A. Site Planning:  
  
    A-1:  Responding to Site Characteristics  
  
    A-7:  Residential [or Public] Open Space  
  
    C. Architectural Elements and Materials  
  
    C-1:  Architectural Context  
  
    C-2  Architectural Concept and Consistency  
  
    C-3  Human Scale  
  
    C-4  Exterior Finish Materials  
  
    D. Pedestrian Environment  
  
    D-1  Pedestrian Open Spaces and Entrances  
  
    D-3  Retaining Walls  
  
    D-4  Design of Parking Lots Near Sidewalks  
  
    D-6  Screening of Dumpsters, Utilities and Service Areas  
  
    D-7  Personal Safety and Security  
  
    E. Landscaping  
  
    E-1  Landscaping to Reinforce Design Continuity with Adjacent Sites  
  
    E-2  Landscaping to Enhance the Building and/or Site  
  
    E-3  Landscape Design to Address Special Site Conditions  
  
    Designers and reviewers alike should refer to the Guidelines for more  
    detailed explanations of these guidelines for good design.  
  
    End  
  
    1999 COMMUNITY CENTER LEVY PROGRAM  
  
    Design Standards  
  
    Belltown Community Center  
  
    High Point Community Center Addition  
  
    International District Community Center  
  
    Jefferson Park Community Center Addition  
  
    Laurelhurst Community Center Addition & Renovation  
  
    Montlake Community Center Renovation  
  
    Northgate Community Center  
  
    Sand Point Community Center Renovation  
  
    Southwest Community Center Addition  
  
    Van Asselt Community Center Addition  
  
    Yesler Community Center  
  
    June 12, 2002  
  
    1999 Community Center Levy Program  
  
    Design Standards  
  
    May 29, 2002  
  
    I  INTENT  
  
    A. To provide guidelines for producing Community Centers that truly  
    become "THE HEART OF THE COMMUNITY"- A place for social, civil, and  
    physical activities that enhance the human spirit.  
  
    B  In the United States, the Northwest leads the nation in  
    sustainable building design.  The City of Seattle is one of the  
    recognized leaders in promoting sustainable design, pursuing at least  
    a "Silver" rating under the U. S. Green Building Council's  
    "Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design" (LEED) rating system  
    for all its new and renovated city buildings larger than 5,000 square  
    feet. The Seattle Parks and Recreation Department (DPR) is committed  
    to constructing sustainable buildings and landscapes, and has set a  
    goal of achieving a minimum of 'Silver' rating for its buildings,  
    consistent with the Department's Initiative for Sustainable Design  
    (attached at end of section).  
  
    II  GENERAL  
  
    A. Comply with all current applicable codes, including ADA  
    Regulations and City of Seattle's Sustainable Building Policy.  
    Community Center designs must comply with Washington State  
    Regulations (DSHS) for childcare.  
  
    B. All projects involving design and construction (new construction  
    or renovation) shall comply with Seattle Department of Parks and  
    Recreation Initiative for Sustainable Design.  Life cycle costs of  
    alternative building materials and building systems shall be part of  
    the design process of all of these projects.  Key points to consider  
    during the design process are:  
  
    1.  Provide as much natural, glare-free day lighting as possible,  
    integrating  
  
      it with the lighting system and HV controls.  
  
    2.  Provide exterior windows with operable sash for natural  
    ventilation.  Coordinate free air volume with mechanical design.  
    Window hold-open devices shall be used to dissuade in/out egress via  
    windows.  
  
    C. Coordinate with Seattle Arts Commission for incorporation of art  
    in the building as a part of "1% for Art" Planning.  
  
    D. Comply with DPR Design Guidelines, Specifications and Details and  
    the most current City of Seattle Standard Specifications and Plans.  
    Construction of all site elements and furnishings shall conform to  
    established DPR Design Guidelines, Standard Specifications and  
    Standard Details.  Accessibility for maintenance staff, service  
    vehicles and access to irrigation controls shall be factored into  
    layout of site elements.  
  
    E. Associated Design Guidelines and Specifications needed to start  
    the design process shall include but not be limited to the following  
    list:  
  
    Standard Instructions to Designers  
  
    00000.01  
  
    Do's and Do Not's For Consultants  
  
    00000.02  
  
    Contract Document Checklist for Project Manual  
  
    00000.03  
  
    Survey & Mapping Standards  
  
    00000.04  
  
    Use of Recycled Content Products  
  
    00010.01  
  
    Operation & Maintenance Manual (incl. notes to consultants)  
  
    01730.01  
  
    ADA Access and Signage  
  
    02500.01  
  
    Roofing (new or re-roofing)  
  
    07000.01  
  
    Gutters (prefabricated aluminum)  
  
    07630.01  
  
    Hardware (preferred list)  
  
    08710.01  
  
    Flooring for Community Centers  
  
    09000.01  
  
    Basketball Court Layout (Indoor)  
  
    09900.54  
  
    Volleyball Court Layout (Indoor)  
  
    09900.55  
  
    Badminton/Pickleball Court Layout (Indoor)  
  
    09900.56  
  
    Gym Floor Striping (for New Community Centers)  
  
    09900.58  
  
    Wood Flooring (for Gyms & Multi-purpose Rooms)  
  
    09550.01  
  
    Carpeting  
  
    09680.01  
  
    Painting Work  
  
    09900.01  
  
    Restrooms (for Community Centers)  
  
    10000.01  
  
    Community Center Signs  
  
    10440.01  
  
    Building Systems & Equipment  
  
    11020.01  
  
    Athletic & Recreational Equipment (for Community Centers)  
  
    11480.01  
  
    Control Systems Information Outline (CSI)  
  
    13880.01  
  
    Energy Management Control System (EMCS)  
  
    13880.01  
  
    Plumbing Fixtures  
  
    15400.01  
  
    Boiler Valves & Miscellaneous Equipment  
  
    15550.01  
  
    Electrical Work  
  
    16000.01  
  
    Warranties  
  
    17040.01  
  
    F. Maximizing the use of recycled or reused materials is required.  
    Durability, sustainability and maintainability are the over-riding  
    considerations in determining the materials and construction methods  
    for all site elements and areas.  
  
    G. Design chair rails into all spaces, except corridors, game rooms,  
    and gym and kitchen (Verify mounting height).  
  
    H. Appropriate acoustical attenuation shall be provided in designs  
    for all activity, game, and fitness rooms, as well as lobby,  
    corridors and lounge areas.  
  
    I. Provide key box for Fire Department.  
  
    III.  SITE ELEMENTS  
  
    A.  Site Conditions:  
  
    1.  Before design begins, soil testing, borings, sub-surface and  
    seismic conditions, etc., assessments shall be completed, along with  
    topographic surveying of the site.  Soil testing shall be required  
    for all newly planted areas.  The soil shall be appropriately amended  
    before planting begins.  
  
    B.  Siting of Buildings:  
  
    1.  The design team, which includes (but is not limited to) the  
    Architect, Landscape Architect, Civil Engineer, Project Artists,  
    etc., shall work together, with DPR and the community, to determine  
    how and where the building(s) will be located on the site.  Criteria  
    to be considered during the siting process shall include: site and  
    building accessibility, parking requirements, availability of  
    utilities, traffic, site circulation, views, noise, solar and wind  
    exposure, environmental and energy savings, and relationships of the  
    community center to other park amenities such as play areas, athletic  
    facilities, existing plantings, etc.  Every possible effort shall be  
    made to preserve and protect existing trees that are determined to be  
    of value by a Certified Arborist.  Consideration should also be given  
    to possible future expansion.  
  
    C.  Parking:  
  
    1.  The number of parking spaces shall comply with the Seattle Zoning  
    Code or as established by DPR for Community Center Facilities.  
  
    2.  A maximum of 35% spaces shall be striped for 8 feet wide stalls  
    (compact vehicles) and remainder of the parking spaces shall be  
    striped for 9 feet wide stalls.  
  
    3.  Parking area shall have a minimum of 2% slope to drain, except to  
    ADA spaces and main routes of travel (2% max. slope).  
  
    4.  Parking space lines shall be painted white.  Do NOT use traffic  
    buttons.  
  
    5.  Drop off/pick-up zones shall be provided near the main entrance  
    and their design coordinated with fire zones and ADA.  
  
    D.  Site - General:  
  
    1. Bicycle racks, litter receptacles and recycle bins, shall be  
    located near the entrances.  
  
    2. Main pathways shall be 10 feet wide to accommodate maintenance  
    vehicles.  Maintain 2% or less cross-slope where possible for ADA  
    access.  
  
    3.  A paved special events plaza, when provided, shall be near the  
    main entrance or multi-purpose room.  
  
    4.  Provide signage for direction from street to main entrance.  
  
    5.  Signage - see DPR Design Guideline #10440.01 for exterior signs.  
  
    E.  Site Lighting:  
  
    1. The accessible path to the community center entry shall be lit in  
    accordance with ADA requirements.  
  
    2. Lighting must balance safety and security with a welcoming  
    appearance.  
  
    3. Full-cutoff or fully shielded luminaries will be used to minimize  
    light trespass.  
  
    4. Special lighting in areas that could be lurking zones, such as  
    back of  
  
    community centers, shall be provided with motion sensors.  
  
    5.  Incorporate energy-efficient measures in lighting, motion sensors  
    etc.  
  
    F.  Landscape Strategy:  
  
    The design team shall incorporate DPR and City of Seattle Best  
    Management Practices guidelines into the design of all site elements.  
    All newly planted areas shall be irrigated with automatic sprinkler  
    systems.  Plants shall be durable and hardy.  Plants shall not be  
    used that have thorns or fruit, or which may be hazardous to the  
    public.  Native plants, drought-tolerant and low maintenance species  
    shall be used as much as possible.  Large or deep shrub beds around  
    community centers shall be discouraged because of security  
    considerations.  Traffic and circulation patterns shall be  
    considered.  Pedestrian routes between parking lots, play areas,  
    etc., and the entries to the building, shall be open and paved.  
    Shrub beds shall be protected near entries using curbs, walls or  
    raised planters, whenever possible.  Plant warranties, and  
    maintenance during establishment of plantings shall be required to be  
    for at least one year (three years is preferred).  Tree wells or  
    trees planted adjacent to paving shall have substantial room for root  
    growth (no less than 50 S.F./tree and larger for larger species).  
    The soil in the tree planting areas shall be prepared for deep  
    growth.  Paving adjacent to trees shall be protected with root  
    barriers  
  
    G.  Drainage Issues:  
  
    Site drainage shall be accommodated as much as possible.  Detention,  
    retention, and treatment of site runoff is required per City of  
    Seattle Stormwater, Grading and Drainage Control Codes, see Ordinance  
    #119965, November 2000.  Proper placement and elevations of the  
    building(s) shall assure positive site drainage conditions.  Set the  
    floor elevations high enough above the surrounding site areas to  
    assure that all areas drain away from the building terminate in  
    appropriate drainage structures, protecting landscaped areas.  The  
    project Civil Engineer and Landscape Architect shall work together to  
    design the grading and drainage.  These must work in unison to  
    provide positive drainage conditions.  Lawn areas shall be graded no  
    steeper that 4:1.  Lawn areas shall be graded to at least 3% slopes  
    to assure positive drainage.  Planted areas (shrub beds) shall be  
    graded to no steeper that 2:1 (3:1 preferred) and shall be graded to  
    assure positive drainage.  Walls or rockeries shall be provided in  
    areas steeper that 2:1.  Paved areas shall be graded at 2% minimum  
    for asphalt paving and 1% minimum for concrete paving, to assure  
    positive drainage and allow for potential settling.  Grades of paved  
    areas must also meet ADA requirements (2% maximum cross slope), where  
    paved areas are meant to be accessible routes of travel.  
  
    IV.  BUILDING ELEMENTS  
  
    A. Exterior  
  
        1.  Materials:  
  
    a.  Must be graffiti resistant or offer ease of removal  
  
    b.  Must be highly resistant to impacts  
  
    c.  Materials must be durable, offering a minimum of 40-year life  
    span  
  
    d.  If masonry, must be sealed with appropriate sealer (approved by  
    masonry manufacturer).  DPR to review and approve.  
  
    2.  Painting:  All paints must comply with the current EPA and DPR  
    Guidelines and Standards.  See Design Guideline #09900.01 for  
    Painting Work.  
  
    3.  Roofing:  See DPR Roofing Design Guideline #07000.01 (for new and  
    reroofing) for steep and low sloped roofing.  
  
    4.  Plumbing:  No liquid carrying piping shall be allowed in the  
    outside walls for freeze prevention purposes.  
  
    5.  Plumbing: Provide flush, lockable freeze proof hose bibs (verify  
    number and locations).  
  
    6.  Electrical  
  
    a.  Provide a minimum of 3 to 4 lockable, switchable outlets. Provide  
    outlet(s) in the direction of the field for field access.  Locations  
    of the outlets shall be determined during design process.  
  
    b.  Provide a 50 amp lockable exterior outlet for future espresso  
    cart at "Community Plaza".  
  
    c.  Provide special lockable exterior outlet for an emergency  
    generator with hard surface access from the main street for trucks.  
    Provide a phased power panel with emergency service requirements and  
    a "pig-tail" connection.  
  
    d.  Lighting must enhance "welcoming feeling" and be balanced with  
    security and pathway lighting for ADA.  
  
    e.  Provide building address on building for fire department.  
  
    B.  Interior Spaces introduce as much natural glare-free daylight as  
    possible considering the entire center and not simply individual  
    rooms; integrate daylighting with artificial lighting and HVAC  
    control systems.  Provide ability to darken windows in designated  
    rooms.  
  
    1.  Entry/Vestibule:  
  
    a.  The entry must have 2 sets of doors with removable center  
    mullions - each leaf to be ADA compliant for opening pressure.  
  
    b.  Explore the possibility of ADA automatic doors - if 8.5 lb. or  
    less pull for doors cannot be provided.  
  
    c.  Provide walk-off mats with walk-off grates outside - total lineal  
    distance to be 15 - 18 feet or more to catch rocks and sand  
  
    (outside) and dry the shoes (inside).  This is especially important  
    to protect wood and carpet flooring inside.  
  
    2.  Lobby:  
  
    a.  Provide hard surface flooring, such as stained concrete, quarry  
    tile or other materials such as linoleum, rubber tile, etc.  
    Maintenance, appearance and sound attenuation are key considerations.  
    Carpet is not acceptable.  
  
    b. Visitors must easily see reception counter from lobby doors.  
  
    c. Provide space for recycle containers (paper, glass and aluminum).  
  
    d. Make provision for a pay phone location (power and telephone  
    cable).  
  
    3. Lounge:  
  
    a. Use easily cleanable hard surface flooring.  
  
    b.  Provide space for display of trophies, artwork, etc.  
  
    4.  Reception Area:  
  
    a.  The location must be easily visible from the lobby.  
  
    b.  Staff must be able to visually observe gym; activity room(s),  
    game room(s), restrooms and multi-purpose room entrances as well as  
    main entrance, corridors and exits.  
  
    c.  Place security monitors, parabolic mirrors etc. in this area as  
    required.  
  
    e. Adjust countertop for children, ADA, and standard heights.  
  
    f. Provide service space for two computer stations at counter.  One  
    shall be either accessible or shall have ability to be easily  
    modified.  
  
    g. Cash handling, including registers shall be considered.  
  
    5.  Corridors:  
  
    a.  Walls and floor material must be durable, slip-resistant and  
    highly impact resistant. Carpet is not acceptable in corridors.  
  
    b.  Pop and candy vending machines should be located in alcoves, if  
    possible.  
  
    c.  Flooring under and around the vending machines must be hard  
    surface.  
  
    d.  Sound attenuation is also important.  
  
    6.  Activity Rooms:  
  
    a.  These must be multi-functional adaptable rooms, used for a  
    variety of activities throughout the day such as hangout space for  
    different age groups.  
  
    b.  Each room shall accommodate 20 to 30 people.  
  
    c.  Lockable cabinets with a stainless steel sink shall be provided.  
  
    d.  Storage closet for chairs, tables, etc. shall be provided  
  
    e.  Design for sound attenuation.  
  
    f.  Cabinetry shall be lockable with locks keyed alike.  
  
    g.  Provide vinyl composition tile or rubber tile floor.  
  
    7.  Computer Training Room:  
  
    a.  The size shall accommodate up to 20 workstations.  
  
    b.  Provide secure storage (for servers, disks, books etc.).  
  
    c.  HVAC management is very important to control the environment and  
    equipment-generated heat.  See Design Guideline #13800.11.  
  
    d.  Flooring shall be carpet for noise and static electricity  
    control.  
  
    e.  Provide indirect lighting for control of glare.  
  
    f.  Multiple phones lines (to be determined during prelim. design).  
  
    g.  Fiber optic cable (to be determined during preliminary. design).  
  
    h.  Provide sound attenuation.  
  
    8.  Game Room:  
  
    a.  Walls in game rooms shall be made of products such as Medium  
    Density Fiberboard (MDF) or 3/8" MDO, both backed up with gypsum  
    board for impact resistance.  
  
    b.  Room shall be large enough to accommodate game machines, and/or  
    pool table, and/or ping pong tables.  Verify program.  
  
    c.  Provide storage closet.  
  
    d.  Make game room nearby but separate from "teen room".  
  
    e.  Design for sound attenuation.  
  
    f.  Accommodate game machines (verify number), pool and ping pong  
    tables.  
  
    9.  Kid's Room:  
  
    a.  Flooring to be part carpet for comfort when seated on floor and  
    part hard-surfaced around the sink area or hard easily cleaned  
    surface and a throw rug for seating on floor.  
  
    b.  Counters will be 24" high (kid-height) with sink and controls  
    easily used by small children. Provide open storage cubbies below  
    (verify number).  
  
    c.  Provide storage closet for additional supplies.  
  
    d.  Provide a single restroom with a sink, accessible from kid's room  
    only.  
  
    10.  Fitness Room:  
  
    a.  Size room for: 2 bikes, 2 treadmills, 2 elliptical, 1 multi-  
    station gym and 4 stations.  Develop a machine use diagram.  
  
    b.  Provide a storage closet for free weights and other equipment.  
  
    c.  Design for sound attenuation.  
  
    c. Special cushion flooring for safety is needed where free weights  
  
    Are used.  
  
    d. Meet or exceed number of air changes as required per current State  
    Energy Code (chapter #2).  
  
    e. Provide convenience outlets for fans.  
  
    f. Provide outlets high on the wall for TV mounted on ceiling hung  
    brackets.  
  
    11.  Teen Room:  
  
    a.  Provide hangout space for teens.  
  
    b.  Late Night Programs will operate in this room.  
  
    c.  Storage space is required for teen program equipment.  
  
    d.  For Teen Center Programs, provide spaces for study, tutoring,  
    counseling area, offices, etc.  
  
    12.  Offices:  
  
    a.  Provide two (2) private offices and one (1) general office with 3  
    to 4 workstations.  The general office will have the whole-building  
    pager system base.  
  
    b.  Staff must have visual access to corridors.  
  
    c.  General office to have a dual "drop-and-secure" wall safe. Drop  
    opening to be @ 40" above floor level.  
  
    d.  The general office shall be next to the reception space.  
  
    e. Offices shall be grouped.  
  
    13.  Kitchen:  
  
    a.  Design of kitchen layout to meet all ADA, and Seattle & King  
    County Health Department requirements.  
  
    b.  Verify size and use with design program.  
  
    c.  Provide electric range (for safety) with a convection oven, and  
    hood that vents to outdoors.  
  
    d.  Range Hood - Type: Class A for deep-fry cooking or Class B for  
    others.  Exhaust hood fan shall have a timer.  
  
    d. Provide heavy duty Best locking system, latches and hinges on  
    cabinets (ADA compliant). Locks shall be keyed alike.  See Design  
    Guideline #08710.01.  
  
    f.  Provide 2 full size commercial refrigerator/freezer units (with  
    upper freezers) that are divided into 4 sections - 3 refrigerators  
    and 1 freezer.  Refrigerators shall be lockable with padlock or other  
    lock.  
  
    g.  Provide a microwave oven.  
  
    h.  Provide a commercial dishwasher with adjacent drying, loading and  
    garbage disposal.  
  
    i.  Cabinets and counter tops are to be heavy duty with durable  
    wearing surfaces and heavy-duty hardware (hinges, locks and latches).  
  
    j.  Flooring shall be ceramic tile or quarry tile with cove base.  
  
    j. Counter top roll-up door for pass-through access to multi-purpose  
    room.  
  
    k. Provide a floor drain.  
  
    l. Provide grease trap.  
  
    m. Counter top next to the stove shall be heat resistant.  
  
    n. Island sink shall be provided only if non-island location proves  
    impractical.  
  
    o. Provide stainless steel sinks.  
  
    14.  Multi-Purpose Room:  
  
    a.  Approximate size 2700 square feet.  
  
    b.  To be dividable by a ceiling-hung acoustical operable wall (52 to  
    55 STC Rated) into two spaces - one small and one large -  
    approximately 1/3 and 2/3.  
  
    c.  Flooring to be gym-type floating floor of wood, #2 or better  
    maple. See DPR Design Guideline #09550.01.  Coordinate with Architect  
    for use of walk-off mats and purchase of maintenance equipment (2-  
    speed buffer, paver squeezie for protection of wood floor.  
  
    c. Provide a counter cabinet with sink in each space.  
  
    d. Design acoustics of room for large gatherings, music, dance etc.  
  
    e. Lighting to be controlled with dimming or multi-task/staged  
    fixtures.  
  
    g.  Where rooms are divisible, provide separate HVAC zones.  
  
    h.  Two large closets for tables, chairs, etc.  
  
    i.  Zone control HV (year around ventilation is necessary for  
    preserving wood floor).  Also, consider humidistat control for wood  
    floor.  
  
    i. Provide wiring for internal PA and music system.  
  
    j. Provide mirrors next to barres for dance per program.  
  
    15.  Gymnasium:  
  
    a.  See DPR Standard Detail # 09900.58 for dimensions.  
  
    b.  See DPR Standard Details # 09900.54, .55, .56, and .58 for court  
    layouts.  
  
    c.  Use portable bleachers.  
  
    d.  Game lighting to have good color balance and even distribution of  
    100 FTC (foot-candles) at use level -  3' to 6', combined with light  
    color walls.  With darker color walls, levels of FTC must be  
    increased.  Overall perceived brightness must be same.  
  
    e.  For multi-purposes such as dances and large gatherings, lighting  
    is to be dimmable and separate from game light system.  
  
    f.  Game Standards shall be as manufactured by ' Senoh'.  
  
    g.  Provide thickened slab in areas for game standard sleeves.  
    Verify depth of thickened slab with game standard manufacturer.  
  
    g. Provide divider curtain, 2 score boards, scorer's table,  
    electrical hook-ups, internal PA and Music system wiring.  
  
    h. Gym storage to have a pair of access doors and space for the  
    storage of portable bleachers, multiple game stanchions (standards)  
    and net, and other equipment.  Provide painted plywood wainscot to  
    protect walls from damage.  
  
    i. Provide divider curtain, two score boards, scorer's table,  
    electrical hook-ups, internal PA and Music system wiring.  
  
    Provide additional outlets for this equipment.  
  
    16.  Restrooms, Family Changing and Showers:  
  
    a.  Number of restroom fixtures shall be per code.  
  
    a. Two separate family changing rooms to have a shower stall,  
    lavatory and water closet - all fully ADA accessible.  Provide  
    interior locks for each room.  
  
    b. Provide a bench for changing clothes.  
  
    c. Showers shall have floor pans with integral walls that extend 6'-  
    8" up.  
  
    17.  Custodial Office and Storage:  
  
    a.  Office to be separate from the storage area.  
  
    b.  Office to have space for regular size desk, chair, filing  
    cabinet, etc.  
  
    c.  Provide space for wood floor cleaning and buffing equipment and  
    cleaning materials, as well as vinyl floor and carpet cleaning  
    equipment and materials.  
  
    d.  Storage is for normal day-to-day paper products and cleaners.  
    Storage to be sized for reasonable amounts, i.e. two weeks to one-  
    month supply.  
  
    d. Pumps shall be mounted on floors.  
  
    18  Custodial:  
  
    a.  Floor sinks shall be have 4' high stainless steel backsplash or  
    tile finish over backerboard  
  
    b.  Provide a floor drain.  
  
    19  Storage Rooms:  
  
    a.  Provide built-in heavy-duty shelving.  
  
    20.  Mechanical and Electrical Rooms:  
  
    a.  Do NOT place a boiler tank over "occupied" spaces.  
  
    b.  Noise of mechanical and electrical systems must be controlled by  
    means of acoustical insulation.  
  
    c.  Provide emergency generator and panel with emergency service.  
  
    d.  Adequate lighting must be provided and located for maintenance  
    personnel's use to inspect and service equipment.  
  
    e.  Pumps shall be mounted on equipment pads on floors.  
  
    21.  Art Display Areas:  
  
    a.  When programmed, provide suitable exhibition space for display of  
    artworks generated through community classes and/or from the City's  
    portable collection.  Coordinate planning with Seattle Arts  
    Commission.  
  
    b. The space should provide for adequate security of artwork and be  
    appropriately lighted.  
  
    c. Coordinate design of art display spaces or installation with "1%  
    for Art" planning objectives for each project.  
  
    C.  Interior Finishes/Materials:  
  
    1.  Exit doors opening into fire-rated corridors from Activity Rooms,  
    Multi-Purpose rooms, Gyms shall have electric magnetic hold-open  
    device.  
  
    2.  Use of blinds - for long-term life, use type within the insulated  
    glass units (integral type), especially on solar (south, southwest &  
    west) side windows.  
  
    3.  Provide for tack/bulletin boards throughout the center at a  
    consistent height integrated into the architecture.  
  
    4.  Corridor floors to be of durable material slip resistant and  
    impact resistant.  Do not use carpet in corridors.  
  
    5.  Walls in game rooms and corridors to be highly resistant to  
    impact blows.  
  
    6.  Provide a minimum of 42" high wainscot of high impact resistant  
    material in all corridors.  
  
    7.  Provide similar 42" wainscot and a chair rail in the following  
    rooms: offices, activity rooms, kid's rooms, computer rooms and  
    multi-purpose rooms.  
  
    8.  Provide high impact resistant wainscot up to top of window height  
    in game rooms, teen rooms, and in vending machine alcoves.  
  
    D.  Interior Signage:  
  
    1.  See DPR Design Guideline #10440.01 for interior signage.  
  
    E.  Furnishings:  
  
    1.  Seating furniture in the lounge must be comfortable and durable.  
  
    2.  When fabric is used, it must be stain resistant.  
  
    F.  Special Equipment:  
  
    1.  Elevator, if provided, shall have 2000 lb. minimum capacity and  
    shall be ADA compliant.  
  
    G.  Mechanical and Electrical:  
  
    1.  Use a coordinated energy efficient heating, ventilating and  
    cooling system in conjunction with Sound Building Insulation and Day-  
    Lighting strategies.  
  
    2.  Acoustical noise of mechanical and electrical systems must be  
    controlled and minimized.  
  
    3.  Security, fire, alarm and sprinklering, and video camera  
    monitoring systems must be integrated into the architecture.  
  
    4.  Use a Day Lighting strategy tied into the lighting system  
    controls for energy conservation.  
  
    5.  Provide complete building mechanical systems integrated by means  
    of Energy Management Control System; see DPR Design Guideline  
    #13880.01.  
  
    6.  See DPR Design Guideline #15550.01 for boiler valves and  
    miscellaneous equipment.  Do not use butterfly or ball valves.  
  
    7.  See DPR Design Guideline #16000.01, "Electrical Work", for  
    electrical system requirements.  
  
    8.   Provide separate hot water circulation system and tempered water  
    circulation systems.  
  
    9.  Community center shall be provided with fire sprinklers per NFPA  
    and SBC Standards.  
  
      H.  Communications, and Security:  
  
        1.  Provide security system motion detectors in each room.  
  
    2.  All rooms (except restrooms) shall be wired for monitoring TV  
    cable, PA/music, networking (computers), phones, data, power, etc.  
  
    3.  PA system controls shall be located in the main office and shall  
    have an optional all-rooms or individual room announcement  
    capability.  
  
    4.  Add conduit for home runs from each room to main distribution  
    frame location.  
  
    PARKS AND RECREATION  
  
    INITIATIVE FOR SUSTAINABLE DESIGN  
  
    SEPTEMBER 10, 2001  
  
    Department of Parks and Recreation (DPR) played a major role in using  
    recycled materials products and waste recycling during the  
    implementation of the Community Center Levy projects in the 90's.  
    Our goal is to continue recycling and to increase our participation  
    in sustainable design and construction.  
  
    In Planning and Development Division (PDD), sustainability is the  
    guiding principle for project development, and incorporated into  
    projects from the earliest stage.  Sustainable design principles will  
    be included in all phases of project development; from design,  
    demolition, disposal, construction, operations and maintenance.  
  
    PDD's range of project include buildings and structures such as  
    playgrounds and new community centers as well as property  
    improvements such as landscape restoration and multimillion dollar  
    landslide mitigation projects. Given that some of these types of  
    projects are very difficult to meet Leadership in Energy and  
    Environmental Design (LEED) Silver Ratings, PDD's goals are to  
    substantially improve what we can accomplish by using the following  
    guidelines:  
  
    1.  New buildings of more than 5,000 square feet of occupied space,  
    planned for construction after 2001, and with budgets that have  
    included costs required to achieve a minimum LEED rating of "Silver"  
    (33 points) using the US Green Building Council's LEED Rating System,  
    will do so.  Those projects funded prior to 2001 will achieve the  
    highest rating practicable within available project funds.  
  
    2.  Major remodeling projects of more than 5000 square feet and  
    includes site related issues, water use and waste, renovations of  
    energy and water, materials and finishes, and items that affect  
    indoor environmental quality will strive to meet the goal of  
    receiving the maximum number of credits practicable within funds  
    available.  
  
    3.  Remodel projects and small projects, in which the scope of work  
    does not include all five categories, is impossible to meet the  
    "Silver" rating.  For these projects, PDD will meet the intent of the  
    LEED criteria within the section that pertains to the scope of work  
    to the maximum extent practicable.  The emphasis on these projects  
    will be on designing more sustainability.  For example, if the scope  
    of work is to replace an HVAC system, the Energy and Materials  
    categories of LEED would apply. The project should strive to obtain  
    the applicable credit for Energy, optimize energy performance and  
    eliminate HCFC and Halon.  For Materials, recycle and salvage  
    demolition and construction waste, try to meet the intent of these  
    applicable credits only, within the budget and scope of the project.  
    This same approach could be applied to other narrowly focused  
    renovations, such as painting, replacing office partitions, upgrading  
    or replacing irrigation systems, replacing plumbing fixtures, etc. Be  
    sure to check the City's current incentive programs or the Office of  
    Sustainability and Environment Conservation Fund to determine if the  
    project is eligible for financial assistance.  
  
    4.    For a project over 5,000 square feet but is limited in scope,  
    the same process described above should be used.  However, since the  
    5,000 square feet threshold is what is stated in the policy, the  
    project manager should make the case as to why (based on the limited  
    scope) the project should use the above process as opposed to meeting  
    the minimum 33 LEED points.  
  
    5.  Consultant Selections:  In order to assure retaining consultants  
    that are motivated, knowledgeable, and experienced in sustainable  
    design and construction, include appropriate language in the  
    advertisement for proposals, interview/evaluation, and contractual  
    agreements.  Take full advantage of the technical assistance offered  
    by the City departments, such as SPU and City Light.  
  
    6.  Whenever the Office of Sustainability and Environment is offering  
    LEED related workshops and training, we should send our project  
    managers to become familiar with sustainable practices.  
  
    END OF SECTION  
  
    Principles  
  
    Principles  
  
    Bldg Program Template  
  
    Bldg Program Template  
  
    Standards  
  
    Standards  
  
    Appendix  
  
    Appendix  
  
      25  Exhibit B to Attachment 1  
  
      1   Exhibit B to Attachment 1  
  
    GYMNASIUM/COMMUNITY CENTER  
  
    286 days  
  
    5/16/2003 8:00  
  
    6/18/2004 17:00  
  
    Exterior Steel Wall Structure  
  
    20 days  
  
    6/20/2003 8:00  
  
    7/17/2003 17:00  
  
    64  
  
    CMU to PT 2  
  
    10 days  
  
    5/16/2003 8:00  
  
    5/29/2003 17:00  
  
    54  
  
    CMU to Gym Roof  
  
    10 days  
  
    6/20/2003 8:00  
  
    7/3/2003 17:00  
  
    64  
  
    CMU to Plywood Roof at Res Unit  
  
    10 days  
  
    7/4/2003 8:00  
  
    7/17/2003 17:00  
  
    70  
  
    Steel Roof Trusses  
  
    10 days  
  
    7/18/2003 8:00  
  
    7/31/2003 17:00  
  
    68,71  
  
    Roof Framing  
  
    10 days  
  
    8/1/2003 8:00  
  
    8/14/2003 17:00  
  
    72  
  
    Concrete Slab  
  
    5 days  
  
    8/15/2003 8:00  
  
    8/21/2003 17:00  
  
    73  
  
    Roofing above Gym  
  
    15 days  
  
    8/22/2003 8:00  
  
    9/11/2003 17:00  
  
    74  
  
    Exterior Wall Framing  
  
    15 days  
  
    7/18/2003 8:00  
  
    8/7/2003 17:00  
  
    68  
  
    Windows/Storefront  
  
    20 days  
  
    8/8/2003 8:00  
  
    9/4/2003 17:00  
  
    76  
  
    Exterior Siding  
  
    15 days  
  
    8/15/2003 8:00  
  
    9/4/2003 17:00  
  
    77SS+5 days  
  
    Interior Wall Framing Floor 1  
  
    25 days  
  
    9/5/2003 8:00  
  
    10/9/2003 17:00  
  
    78  
  
    Electrical/Mechanical/Plumbing RI  
  
    20 days  
  
    10/10/2003 8:00  
  
    11/6/2003 17:00  
  
    79  
  
    GWB  
  
    15 days  
  
    10/31/2003 8:00  
  
    11/20/2003 17:00  
  
    80FS-5 days  
  
    Tape  
  
    10 days  
  
    11/21/2003 8:00  
  
    12/4/2003 17:00  
  
    81  
  
    Prime Paint  
  
    5 days  
  
    12/5/2003 8:00  
  
    12/11/2003 17:00  
  
    82  
  
    Hardwood flooring  
  
    15 days  
  
    12/12/2003 8:00  
  
    1/1/2004 17:00  
  
    83  
  
    Vinyl/Carpet Flooring  
  
    20 days  
  
    12/12/2003 8:00  
  
    1/8/2004 17:00  
  
    83  
  
    Tile  
  
    8 days  
  
    12/12/2003 8:00  
  
    12/23/2003 17:00  
  
    83  
  
    Hardware & Trim  
  
    15 days  
  
    1/2/2004 8:00  
  
    1/22/2004 17:00  
  
    85FS-5 days  
  
    Electrical/Mechanical/Plumbing Finish  
  
    15 days  
  
    1/9/2004 8:00  
  
    1/29/2004 17:00  
  
    85  
  
    Cabinets  
  
    5 days  
  
    1/30/2004 8:00  
  
    2/5/2004 17:00  
  
    88  
  
    Specialty Items  
  
    10 days  
  
    2/6/2004 8:00  
  
    2/19/2004 17:00  
  
    89  
  
    Final Clean  
  
    5 days  
  
    2/20/2004 8:00  
  
    2/26/2004 17:00  
  
    90  
  
    Punch List  
  
    5 days  
  
    2/27/2004 8:00  
  
    3/4/2004 17:00  
  
    91  
