* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114699**   
**Ordinance Number: 121297**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to affordable housing program development; authorizing a grant agreement with the Corporation for Supportive Housing for activities intended to expand the supply of housing for long-term homeless people, and the acceptance by the City of Three Hundred and Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars thereunder; authorizing implementing agreements, including agreements with Spokane County, City of Spokane and King County for activities using a portion of the grant funds; creating a part-time position in the Office of Housing; and increasing the 2003 Budget of the Office of Housing by making an appropriation conditioned on receipt of grant funds.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 29, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 10, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 9, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 15, 2003   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services and Community Development   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER   
  
**Index Terms:** GRANTS, HOMELESS, EMERGENCY-HOUSING, SHELTERS, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, KING-COUNTY, INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114699.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114699  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to affordable housing program development;  
    authorizing a grant agreement with the Corporation for Supportive  
    Housing for activities intended to expand the supply of housing for  
    long-term homeless people, and the acceptance by the City of Three  
    Hundred and Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars thereunder; authorizing  
    implementing agreements, including agreements with Spokane County,  
    City of Spokane and King County for activities using a portion of the  
    grant funds; creating a part-time position in the Office of Housing;  
    and increasing the 2003 Budget of the Office of Housing by making an  
    appropriation conditioned on receipt of grant funds.  
  
    WHEREAS, the Corporation for Supportive Housing (CSH) invited, and  
    subsequently approved, an application from The City of Seattle,  
    acting in conjunction with public agencies representing King County,  
    the City of Spokane and Spokane County as part of the CSH "Taking  
    Health Care Home" Initiative funded by the Robert Wood Johnson  
    Foundation; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Corporation for Supportive Housing seeks to allocate  
    funds to encourage linkages between the allocation of funds for  
    affordable housing and supportive services, in particular to expand  
    the supply of low-income housing available to persons experiencing  
    long-term homelessness; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the CSH grant agreement will provide funds to the City to  
    pay for staff costs, consulting costs and other expenses associated  
    with the goal of the Taking Health Care Home Initiative; NOW,  
    THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The Director of the Office of Housing or her designee is  
    authorized to execute, deliver, and administer, for and on behalf of  
    The City of Seattle, a grant agreement with the Corporation for  
    Supportive Housing ("CSH") under which the City will receive up to  
    Three Hundred Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($325,000) over a 24-month  
    period from September 1, 2003 to August 31, 2005, based on the form  
    attached hereto as Exhibit A, with such revisions and amendments as  
    such Director may deem necessary or appropriate to carry out the  
    intent of this ordinance ("Agreement").  The intent of CSH and the  
    City is to improve coordination between the allocation of capital  
    funds and supportive service funds for affordable housing, and to  
    support efforts to expand the inventory of housing available to  
    persons who have experienced long-term homelessness.  When received,  
    funds are hereby accepted and shall be deposited in the Office of  
    Housing Operating Fund.  
  
    Section 2.  The grant agreement attached as Exhibit A includes a  
    schedule of activities and specifies the project tasks to be  
    completed by the Office of Housing and additional partners in the  
    initiative, which will include agencies of King County, and the City  
    and County of Spokane.  The Director of the Office of Housing is  
    authorized to negotiate, execute, perform, administer, and modify  
    agreements with these public agencies and with consultants,  
    consistent with the scope of the grant agreement.  
  
    Section 3.  To carry out the purpose of the Agreement authorized in  
    Section 1, and contingent upon the execution of that Agreement, the  
    appropriation for the following in the 2003 budget is increased as  
    follows:  
  
    Fund                                 Department                                    Budget Control Level    Amount  
  
    Office of Housing          Office of Housing                           Administration and        $325,000  
    Operating Fund                                                                      Management  
    (16600)  
  
    provided that such increase in expenditure authority is conditioned  
    upon, and limited to the extent of, the receipt of money from CSH  
    under the Agreement.  Any unexpended or unencumbered portions of this  
    appropriation shall not lapse and shall be carried forward from year  
    to year until funds are fully expended unless abandoned by ordinance.  
    The foregoing notwithstanding, to the extent that the total amount  
    received by the City under the Agreement as of the end of 2005 is  
    less than $325,000, the unexpended portion of the appropriation in  
    this Section shall be deemed abandoned.  
  
      Section 4.  As recommended by the Department of Finance, the  
    following position is hereby created in the Office of Housing:  
  
    * Part-time Strategic Advisor I  
  
    This position will be abrogated upon the earlier of full expenditure  
    of the CSH grant, or on January 1, 2006.  
  
    Section 5.  Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the  
    effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  
  
    Section 6.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Attachments:  Exhibit A (Grant agreement with the Corporation for  
    Supportive Housing)  
  
    Bill Rumpf/gf  
  
    CSH Ord3.doc  
  
    August 20, 2003  
  
    version#3  
  
    Katie Hong, Director  
  
    City of Seattle, Office of Housing  
  
    ATTN: Bill Rumpf  
  
    700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5700  
  
    Seattle, WA  98115-5032  
  
               03-135-G             
  
      Program Action Number  
  
    Dear Ms. Hong:  
  
      I am pleased to inform you that the Corporation for Supportive  
    Housing ("CSH") has approved a Grant (the "Grant") in the amount of  
    $325,000.00 to City of Seattle, Office of Housing  ("the Grantee")  
    for the purposes set forth in Section 1, below.  The Grant will be  
    made in accordance with the following terms and conditions:  
  
  
  
    1. Purpose of the Grant  
  
  
  
  
         The purpose of this Grant is to aid in expanding the supportive  
    housing pipeline by 300 units, integrate housing and services  
    financing, and make system changes that will result in more state and  
    local investments in supportive housing for chronically homeless  
    people (the "Project"). The sponsor is located in the City of  
    Seattle, Washington and will work in the city, its County (King), and  
    Spokane City/County.  
  
    2. Term of the Grant.  
  
      This grant is to pay for services provided from September 1, 2003  
    through August 31, 2005 and is available for drawdown for a period  
    beginning on the date of counter-signature of this Grant Letter  
    Agreement (the "Commencement Date") and ending October 1, 2005 (the  
    "Expiration Date").  
  
    3. Disbursement of the Grant.  
  
      Funds are disbursed upon request only.  Requests for disbursements  
    of funds should be directed to the CSH Principal Contact person  
    indicated in Section 9 below.  
  
      Disbursements will be made bi-annually according to the following  
    schedule:  
  
    * 1st disbursement $82,000 - September 2003  
  
    * 2nd disbursement $81,000 - February 2004  
  
    * 3rd disbursement $81,000 - September 2004  
  
    * 4th disbursement $81,000 - December 2004  
  
    The first disbursement will be made upon satisfaction of the  
    following conditions:  
  
    a) Receipt by CSH's Loans, Grants and Contracts Administrator of this  
    countersigned letter;  
  
    Subsequent disbursements will be made upon satisfaction of the  
    following conditions:  
  
    a) Receipt and acceptance by CSH of a written accounting of how  
    previous disbursements were spent.  
  
    b) Receipt and acceptance by CSH of a narrative report on progress  
    toward expected outcomes (see Attachment B). Grantee must demonstrate  
    achievement or significant progress toward activities targeted for  
    completion prior to disbursement date.  
  
    c) Data submissions necessary to document success or challenges  
    encountered in meeting the Taking Health Care Home outcomes.  
  
      CSH will disburse Grant proceeds up until the Expiration Date; CSH  
    must receive any requests for disbursement no later than five days  
    prior to the Expiration Date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing  
    provisions of this Section 3, however, CSH shall not make any  
    disbursement of the Grant unless, at the time of such disbursement,  
    the Grantee is in compliance with all the terms and conditions of  
    this letter applicable to the Grant, and the disbursement of the  
    Grant (i) will not violate any provision of law, regulation or  
    administrative ruling to which CSH is subject, and (ii) will not  
    subject CSH to any tax, penalty or fine.  
  
    4. No Disbursements if in Default or if any Material Adverse  
    Changes; Material Change Notification.  
  
      CSH shall not be obligated to disburse any Grant funds if, at the  
    time of the proposed disbursements, the Grantee, or any subsidiary of  
    the Grantee, or any partnership affiliated with the Grantee, is in  
    default under the terms of any CSH financing, whether for the Project  
    or provided by CSH for any other project or purpose.  
  
      The Grantee agrees to provide CSH with immediate notice of any  
    material change in the status of the Project.  Furthermore, CSH shall  
    not be obligated to disburse any proceeds of the Grant if there have  
    been any material adverse changes in the Project, including, but not  
    limited to, the following:  (i) the financial or other condition of  
    the Grantee or the Project; or (ii) the key personnel working on the  
    Project (key personnel includes, but is not limited to, Katie Hong).  
  
    5. Additional Restrictions on the Use of the Grant.  
  
      The Grantee agrees that the Grant funds shall not be used to carry  
    on propaganda, to attempt to influence legislation, or to participate  
    in, or intervene in or attempt to influence the outcome of, political  
    campaigns or elections.  
  
    6. Reports and Accounting Records.  
  
      Written bi-annual progress reports documenting progress made  
    relative to expected outcomes (see Attachment B) and any data  
    submissions required for reporting under the Taking Health Care Home  
    initiative will be given to the CSH staff person listed in Section 9  
    of this agreement as a pre-requisite to bi-annual disbursement of the  
    Grant funds. A written Final Report will be sent to CSH no later than  
    September 30, 2005.  The Report shall be signed by an appropriate  
    officer of the Grantee and shall contain:  (i) a financial statement  
    reflecting all expenditures of the Grant during the Report period;  
    (ii) a brief narrative account of how the Grant facilitated  
    furtherance of the expected outcomes of the Project; and (iii) a  
    detailed description of the overall status of the Project.  
  
    7. Review of Operations.  
  
      CSH may monitor and conduct an evaluation of operations funded by  
    the Grant.  An evaluation may include a visit from CSH personnel to  
    observe the Project, and/or to review the Grantee financial and other  
    records and materials relating to the activities financed or  
    facilitated by the Grant.  
  
    8. Publicity.  
  
      CSH may include information regarding the Grant in its periodic  
    public reports as well as its press releases.  CSH asks that the  
    Grantee not make any public announcement relating to the Grant  
    without first consulting CSH.  
  
    9. The Grantee's Principal Contact at CSH.  
  
      The Grantee's principal CSH contact person in connection with this  
    Grant is Christina Garcia.  Unless otherwise provided herein, all  
    correspondence concerning said Grant should be addressed to her and  
    bear the Program Action Number designated on the first page of this  
    letter.  
  
    10. No Right of Assignment or Delegation.  
  
      The Grantee may not assign or otherwise transfer its rights, or  
    delegate any of its obligations under this letter.  
  
    11. Counter-signature Required.  
  
      If this letter agreement correctly sets forth the Grantee's  
    understanding of the terms and conditions of the Grant, please  
    indicate acceptance by having this letter agreement counter-signed  
    and dated by an authorized officer of the Grantee in the spaces  
    provided below and returned to Matthew Hughes, CSH's Loans, Grants  
    and Contracts Administrator, located at CSH's New York City  
    headquarters, 50 Broadway 17th Floor, New York, NY, 10004.  This  
    letter agreement shall be null and void unless received by CSH on or  
    before October 31, 2003.  
  
      The Grant is being drawn from funds received by CSH from the Robert  
    Wood Johnson Foundation and their Taking Health Care Home initiative.  
  
    On behalf of CSH, I extend every good wish for the success of this  
    endeavor.  
  
      Sincerely,  
  
      Carolyn P. Powell  
  
      Chief Financial and Administrative Officer  
  
    TERMS OF CSH GRANT ACCEPTED AND AGREED TO:  
  
    City of Seattle, Office of Housing  
  
    By:        
  
  
  
    Title:      
  
    Date:      
  
    cc:   Christina Garcia  
  
    ATTACHMENT A  
  
    PROJECT BUDGET  
  
    Project Budget  
  
    CSH - Year 1  
  
    CSH - Year 2  
  
    Leveraged, In-Kind, & Other Sources*  
  
    Total  
  
    Personnel*  
  
    Project Coordinator  
  
    (.75 FTE)  
  
    51,000  
  
    52,455  
  
    103,455  
  
    Eastern WA Coordinator  
  
    (.5 FTE)  
  
    27,350  
  
    28,245  
  
    55595  
  
    Benefits at 28%  
  
    21,930  
  
    22,588  
  
    44,518  
  
    Total Personnel  
  
    100,280  
  
    103,288  
  
    203,568  
  
    Direct Costs  
  
    Supplies  
  
    500  
  
    500  
  
    1,000  
  
    Duplicating  
  
    1,500  
  
    1,500  
  
    3,000  
  
    Telephone  
  
    2,000  
  
    2,000  
  
    4,000  
  
    Postage  
  
    1,000  
  
    1,000  
  
    2,000  
  
    Software  
  
    500  
  
    500  
  
    1,000  
  
    Local Travel  
  
    15,000  
  
    15,000  
  
    30,000  
  
    Other: Fiscal Mgmt  
  
    16,500  
  
    16,500  
  
    33,000  
  
    Total Direct Costs  
  
    37,000  
  
    37,000  
  
    74,000  
  
    Consultants  
  
    22,720  
  
    24,712  
  
    47,432  
  
    BUDGET TOTALS  
  
    160,000  
  
    165,000  
  
    325,000  
  
    TOTAL CSH GRANT REQUEST  
  
    $325,000  
  
    ATTACHEMNT B  
  
    EXPECTED OUTCOMES/SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES AND COMPLETION  
  
    Activities by Expected Outcome  
  
    Grant Quarter  
  
    1) Transform the current service delivery system into a more  
    integrated system that delivers and finances services and housing for  
    homeless people - with a special focus on those who have been  
    homeless for the longest periods of time:  
  
    * Establish a Steering Committee and execute an expanded Memorandum  
    Of Understanding (initial MOU in place) that details Committee's  
    function, purpose, and member roles, responsibilities, and  
    commitments (including, but not limited to, financial resources and  
    staff time) to its goals and sustainability beyond the 2-year grant  
    term.  
  
    o This MOU will also include details on the relationship, common  
    goals, and connections between the Committee and the Supportive  
    Housing Funder Groups  
  
    1st Quarter  
  
    * Create Seattle/King County and Spokane Supportive Housing Funder  
    Groups and execute Memoranda of Understandings (MOU) between the  
    members that details the Group's function, purpose, and member roles,  
    responsibilities, and commitments (including, but not limited to,  
    financial resources and staff time) to its goals and activity  
    sustainability beyond the 2-year grant term.  
  
    o The MOUs will also include details on the relationship, common  
    goals, and connections between the Supportive Housing Funder Groups  
    and the State Committee  
  
    1 MOU per Group:  
  
    2nd Quarter  
  
    2) Create a supportive housing pipeline:  
  
    * Establish a supportive housing pipeline with a target of 300 units  
    for chronically homeless people that will be created between the City  
    of Seattle (200), King County (40), and Spokane City/County (60)  
  
    150 units each:  
  
    4th Quarter  
  
    8th Quarter  
  
    3) Increased investments by states and/or local government in the  
    creation of supportive housing:  
  
    * The Funder Groups will identify and analyze the current level of  
    state and local investment in supportive services (in supportive  
    housing) and outline potential strategies to increase investments  
    through creative targeting and re-allocation of existing funds at the  
    local level.  
  
    3rd Quarter  
  
    * The Steering Committee will produce and implement a strategy to  
    increase state investments that will result in increased financing of  
    services in supportive housing and substantially contribute to the  
    service financing of a majority of the 300 units.  
  
    o This investment specifically includes a 15% increase in Medicaid  
    financing for services in supportive housing  
  
    Strategy in 3rd Quarter  
  
    Increased investments  
  
    4th - 8th Quarter  
  
    CSH Grant Agreement with  
  
    City of Seattle, Office of Housing  
  
    Page 6  
  
    Exhibit A to Ordinance - page 6  
  
    50 Broadway 17th Floor, New York, NY 10004  
  
    Phone:  [212] 986-2966   Fax:  [212] 986-6552  
  
    Exhibit A to Ordinance - page 1  
  
    CSH Grant Agreement with  
  
    "Sponsor"  
  
    "AwardLetterDate"  
  
    Page 2  
  
    50 Broadway 17th Floor, New York, NY 10004  
  
    Phone:  [212] 986-2966   Fax:  [212] 986-6552  
