* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114610**   
**Ordinance Number: 121247**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Seattle Municipal Code Sections 23.84.002 and 23.84.010 to clarify the status of services related to electric scooters and electric-assisted bicycles.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 11, 2003   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Licata, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 19, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 19, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 16, 2003   
**Committee:** Land Use   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, BICYCLES, MOTOR-VEHICLES, TRANSPORTATION-MODES  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Amending Ord 120117  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114610.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114610  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Seattle  
    Municipal Code Sections 23.84.002 and 23.84.010 to clarify the status  
    of services related to electric scooters and electric-assisted  
    bicycles.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  The definition of "automotive retail sales and service"  
    in Section 23.84.002 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was  
    last amended by Ordinance 120117, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.84.002  Definitions -- A  
  
    "Automotive retail sales and service" means a retail sales and  
    service use which includes one (1) or more of the following uses:  
  
    1.  "Automotive parts and accessories sales" means an automotive  
    retail sales and service use in which goods are rented or sold  
    primarily for use in motorized vehicles, but excluding gas stations  
    and the provision of services primarily relating to electric  
    scooters or electric-assisted bicycles.  
  
    2.  "Car wash" means an automotive retail sales and service use in  
    which facilities are provided for washing motorized vehicles.  
  
    3.  "Gas station" means an automotive retail sales and service use in  
    which fuel for motorized vehicles is sold, and in which accessory  
    uses including but not limited to towing by no more than two (2) tow  
    trucks, minor automobile repair, or rental of vehicles under ten  
    thousand (10,000) pounds gross vehicle weight may also be provided.  
    Facilities for washing no more than one (1) car at a time or for the  
    collection of used motor oil shall also be considered accessory to a  
    gas station.  
  
    4.  "Sales and rental of motorized vehicles" means an automotive  
    retail sales and service use in which operable motorized vehicles,  
    such as cars, trucks, buses, recreational vehicles or motorcycles, or  
    related nonmotorized vehicles, such as trailers, are rented or sold.  
    This term does not include the sale and rental of electric  
    scooters or electric-assisted bicycles.  
  
    5.  "Towing service" means an automotive retail sales and service  
    use in which more than two (2) tow trucks are employed in the hauling  
    of motorized vehicles, and where vehicles may be impounded, stored or  
    sold, but not disassembled or junked.  
  
    6.  "Vehicle repair, major" means an automotive retail sales and  
    service use in which one (1) or more of the following activities are  
    carried out:  
  
    a.  Reconditioning of any type of motorized vehicle, including any  
    repairs made to vehicles over ten thousand (10,000) pounds gross  
    vehicle weight;  
  
    b.  Collision services, including body, frame or fender straightening  
    or repair;  
  
    c.  Overall painting of vehicles or painting of vehicles in a paint  
    shop;  
  
    d.  Dismantling of motorized vehicles in an enclosed structure.  
  
    7.  "Vehicle repair, minor" means an automotive retail sales and  
    service use in which general motor repair work is done as well as the  
    replacement of new or reconditioned parts in motorized vehicles of  
    ten thousand (10,000) pounds or less gross vehicle weight; but not  
    including any operation included in the definition of "major vehicle  
    repair" and not including repairs of electric scooters or  
    electric-assisted bicycles.  
  
    Section 2.  Section 23.84.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    section was last amended by Ordinance 119976, is amended by the  
    addition of the following definitions, which shall be codified in  
    alphabetical order:  
  
    23.84.010  Definitions -- E  
  
    "Electric-assisted bicycle" shall have the same meaning accorded  
    by RCW 46.04.169, as that section currently exists or is hereafter  
    amended.  
  
    "Electric scooter" means a vehicle:  (1) with a handlebar for  
    steering, two wheels less than 18 inches in diameter, and a saddle or  
    seat for the operator and any passenger; (2) propelled by an electric  
    motor or by an electric motor in combination with human propulsion;  
    and (3)  
  
  
    incapable of exceeding a speed of 30 miles per hour on level ground.  
  
  
  
  
    Section 3.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be  
    separate and severable.  The invalidity of any particular provision  
    shall not affect the validity of any other provision.  
  
    Section 4.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    C. Susan McLain/ CSM  
  
    Electric Scooters and Electric-Assisted Bicycles  
  
    1/16/2003  
  
    version #2  
  
    - 1 -  
