* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114703**   
**Ordinance Number: 121332**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to alarm systems; establishing licensing and fee provisions for burglar and fire alarm system monitoring companies; establishing penalties for false burglar alarms and appeal procedures relative thereto; amending provisions for alarm verification, frequent false alarms, and civil penalties; adding a new chapter to Seattle Municipal Code Title 6, repealing Sections 10.08.080, 10.08.090, 10.08.100, 10.08.110, 10.08.120, 10.08.173, and amending Sections 10.08.140, 10.08.165, 10.08.178, and 10.08.180, respectively, of the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 24, 2003   
**Vote:** 8-1 (No: McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 5, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 5, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 15, 2003   
**Committee:** Budget   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON   
  
**Index Terms:** BURGLAR-ALARMS, FIRE-ALARMS, POLICE, FEES, BUDGET, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, BUSINESS-ENTERPRISES, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/114703.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)114703  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to alarm systems; establishing licensing and fee  
    provisions for burglar and fire alarm system monitoring companies;  
    establishing penalties for false burglar alarms and appeal procedures  
    relative thereto; amending provisions for alarm verification, frequent  
    false alarms, and civil penalties; adding a new chapter to Seattle  
    Municipal Code Title 6, repealing Sections 10.08.080, 10.08.090,  
    10.08.100, 10.08.110, 10.08.120, 10.08.173, and amending Sections  
    10.08.140, 10.08.165, 10.08.178, and 10.08.180, respectively, of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
    WHEREAS, the number of monitored fire and property alarms within the  
    city of Seattle continues to grow and the costs associated with  
    responding to these alarms has increased accordingly; and  
  
    WHEREAS, over ninety-eight percent of all burglar and property alarms  
    requiring police dispatch are ultimately proven to be false alarms;  
    and  
  
    WHEREAS, alarm monitoring companies currently enjoy the benefit of  
    police response to their customers' alarms without any accountability  
    for the accuracy or reliability of their alarm systems; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the efforts of City employees in tracking and administering  
    fees for false alarms will be minimized if such fees are collected  
    from alarm monitoring companies;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Effective January 1, 2004, a new Chapter is added to Title  
    6, Subtitle I, of the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:  
  
    CHAPTER 6.10 Alarm System Monitoring Companies - Fire Alarm Monitoring  
    Companies  
  
    Subchapter I - Alarm System Monitoring Companies  
  
    SMC  6.10.005  Definitions.  
  
    A.  The definitions contained in Chapters 5.30 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code shall be fully applicable to this chapter except as  
    expressly stated to the contrary herein.  
  
    B.  "Alarm system monitoring company," "burglary alarm," "panic  
    alarm", "property alarm," and "robbery alarm" have the meanings  
    contained in SMC Chapter 10.08.  
  
    C.  "Alarm system" or "alarm device" means any system, device, or  
    mechanism which, when activated, transmits a telephonic, wireless,  
    electronic, video, or other form of message to an alarm system  
    monitoring company, or some other number, or emits an audible or  
    visible signal that can be heard or seen by persons outside the  
    protected premises, or transmits a signal beyond the premises in some  
    other fashion, except any system, device, or mechanism primarily  
    protecting a motor vehicle.  An alarm system or alarm device may  
    consist of one or more components (e.g., motion detector, window  
    breach detector, or similar components) all reporting to a central  
    unit/system panel which, in turn, is connected to or reports to an  
    alarm system monitoring company via telephonic, wireless, electronic,  
    video, or other form of message.  
  
    D.  "Department" means the Department of Executive Administration of  
    the City of Seattle.  
  
    SMC  6.10.010  Alarm System Monitoring Companies - License required -  
    Fee.  
  
    A.  It is unlawful for any person to engage in business in the City of  
    Seattle as an alarm system monitoring company without first having  
    obtained an annual license to do so.  An annual license is required  
    regardless of whether alarms are monitored from a location inside or  
    outside Seattle.  The fee for such annual license is based upon two  
    components:  (1) The following aggregate amount:  
  
    Zero to 100 Seattle monitored alarms                     $100.00 per annum;  
    101 to 200 Seattle monitored alarms                      $200.00 per annum;  
    201 to 500 Seattle monitored alarms                      $400.00 per annum;  
    Over 500 Seattle monitored alarms                        $500.00 per annum;  
  
    and (2) Forty Dollars ($40) per year for each property alarm, burglary  
    alarm, robbery alarm and panic alarm located in Seattle and monitored  
    by the alarm system monitoring company at any time during the calendar  
    year.  
  
    B. The license required pursuant to this chapter is separate from and  
    in addition to any license required by any other chapter of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code including, but not limited to, that required  
    pursuant to Chapter 5.45, Business License Tax; Chapter 5.55, General  
    Administrative Provisions; and Chapter 6.08, pertaining to burglar  
    alarms installers.  
  
    SMC  6.10.015  Annual license and due date.  
  
    A.  The annual license renewal fee shall be payable in advance by the  
    alarm system monitoring company on a calendar year basis, except in  
    2004, where the annual license fee shall be due by April 1.  Licenses  
    expire on December 31 in the calendar year in which they were issued  
    and must be renewed by January 31 of the next year in order to avoid  
    penalty.  
  
    B.  Application for, and renewal of, the annual license shall be on  
    forms specified by the Director and shall be accompanied by the  
    license fee.  Each annual application for, or renewal of, a license  
    shall contain a list of all addresses at which monitored alarm systems  
    are installed, the name of the corresponding subscriber, customer  
    number, if applicable, and the number of alarm systems at such  
    address.  
  
    SMC  6.10.020  Calculation of fees.  
  
    A. New alarm monitoring companies will pay the fee contained in SMC  
    6.10.010 A (1), which shall be computed on the number of alarm systems  
    monitored at the time of initial application.  
  
    B.  The license fee component contained in SMC 6.10.010 A (1) shall  
    not be adjusted quarterly for the number of alarm systems monitored  
    each quarter, however the fee shall be prorated on a quarterly basis  
    at the time of initial application.  
  
    C.  The license fee component contained in SMC 6.10.010 A (2) shall be  
    adjusted quarterly to reflect additional alarm systems first monitored  
    during that quarter.  Each alarm system monitoring company shall file  
    quarterly, in the format specified by the Director, a list of all  
    additional addresses at which it monitored alarms during such quarter,  
    the name of the corresponding subscriber, and the number of alarms at  
    such address.  The quarterly report shall be accompanied by payment of  
    the additional forty dollar ($40.00) per alarm system fee due, if any.  
    See proration calculations in SMC 6.10.030 below.  The quarterly  
    report should also list alarm systems that have been discontinued or,  
    if known, transferred to another alarm monitoring company.  
  
    D.  Each alarm system monitoring company shall file a quarterly report  
    regardless of whether any additional fees are due.  
  
    SMC  6.10.030  License fee proration.  
  
    In calculating the license fee component contained in SMC 6.10.010 A  
    (1), only the initial license fee will be prorated on a quarterly  
    basis for applications made after the first quarter.  The license fee  
    component contained in SMC 6.10.010 A (2) will be prorated in equal  
    amounts on a quarterly basis for alarm systems that begin to be  
    monitored after the first quarter.  A credit will be given for the  
    prorated portion of the license fee contained in SMC 6.10.010 A (2)  
    paid by another alarm monitoring company for the present year on an  
    alarm system that is transferred from one company to another alarm  
    monitoring company; provided that satisfactory proof that the license  
    fee component contained in SMC 6.10.010 A (2) has been paid is  
    supplied to the Director.  
  
    SMC  6.10.040  Duty of licensee.  
  
    A.  It shall be the duty of all licensees granted licenses under this  
    chapter to comply with all applicable regulations in this chapter or  
    elsewhere, including, without limitation, SMC Chapter 10.08. The  
    failure of any licensee to do so shall be a violation of this chapter  
    and grounds to suspend or revoke the license.  
  
    B.  No licensee granted a license under this chapter shall allow any  
    person who has had their alarm monitoring license revoked or suspended  
    by the City of Seattle to be financially interested in its business,  
    or to be in its employ, within one year from the date of such  
    revocation or suspension.  
  
    SMC  6.10.050  Licenses not transferable.  
  
    No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable  
    unless in accordance with SMC Chapter 6.02.  A person not previously  
    licensed that assumes responsibility for monitoring alarms for which  
    another person has paid the annual license fee shall obtain a new  
    license for the remainder of the year by paying the license fee  
    component contained in SMC 6.10.010 A (1).  
  
    SMC  6.10.060  Duty to inform subscribers of ordinance and billing  
    policies.  
  
    All persons licensed pursuant to this chapter shall supply each of  
    their system subscribers with copies of this chapter and chapter  
    10.08.  Licensees who choose to bill their subscribers for  any  
    license fee imposed by this chapter shall give to each of their  
    subscribers a copy of the licensee's policies and practices with  
    respect to such billing.  
  
    SMC  6.10.070  Suspension or revocation of license.  
  
    The Director shall have the power and authority to suspend or revoke  
    any license issued under the provisions of this chapter as set forth  
    in SMC Chapter 6.02.  No suspended or revoked license may be  
    reinstated without prior payment of all fees due and outstanding,  
    including false alarm fees.  The Director shall notify the Seattle  
    Police Department of any revocation or suspension, and in the  
    discretion of the Police Department, no response may be made to any  
    alarms monitored by the alarm system monitoring company until the  
    license is reinstated.  An alarm system monitoring company whose  
    license has been revoked or suspended shall notify each of its  
    subscribers of the revocation or suspension.  The notice shall be in  
    writing and shall be mailed to all subscribers no later than the tenth  
    calendar day following such suspension or revocation.  
  
    SMC  6.10.080  Penalty and interest for failure to pay.  
  
    A.  If a license application, renewal, quarterly report, or payment of  
    any fee due under this chapter is not received on or before the last  
    day of the month in which it becomes due or within an extension of  
    time granted by the Director, there shall be added to the amount, a  
    penalty of ten percent (10%) of the fees owing or Twenty Dollars  
    ($20), whichever is greater, if the payment is received between one  
    (1) and thirty (30) days after the date it becomes due, or a penalty  
    of twenty percent (20%) of the fees owing or Thirty Dollars ($30),  
    whichever is greater, if the payment is later than thirty (30) days  
    after the due date.  
  
    B.  The licensee shall be notified by mail of the amount of any  
    penalties so added, and the same shall become due and shall be paid  
    within ten days from the date of such notice.  
  
    SMC  6.10.090  Violation -- Civil Penalties.  
  
    The failure of a person that engages in business in Seattle as an  
    alarm system monitoring company to comply with any provision of this  
    chapter shall be a civil infraction as contemplated by RCW Chapter  
    7.80 and subject as a Class 1 civil infraction under RCW 7.80.120(2)  
    to a maximum monetary penalty and a default amount of Two Hundred  
    Fifty Dollars ($250.00) plus statutory assessments. Each day of  
    noncompliance shall be a separate violation, and the monetary  
    penalties shall accumulate.  
  
    SMC  6.10.100  Penalty for false alarms.  
  
    The sending of an alarm by an automatic property alarm and/or  
    automatic burglary alarm, which results in the dispatch of the police  
    to the premises on an emergency basis shall be subject to a false  
    alarm response fee of one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00)  
    whenever there is no evidence of a crime or other activity that would  
    warrant a call for police assistance or investigation at the premises;  
    provided, however, that no false alarm fee shall be assessed if any  
    individual who was on or near the premises, or who had viewed a video  
    communication from the premises, called for the dispatch and confirmed  
    a need for a police response.  The false alarm response fee shall be  
    assessed against the alarm system monitoring company.  
  
    SMC  6.10.110  Notice and hearing on penalty for false alarms.  
  
    A.  The Department shall mail by first class mail a written notice of  
    the false alarm response fee to the alarm monitoring company.  The  
    notice shall state the date and time of the false alarm, and that the  
    alarm monitoring company is entitled to a hearing to respond to the  
    notice and introduce any evidence to refute or mitigate the fee.  All  
    false alarm fees are due and payable within thirty (30) days of the  
    date that the Department mails the notice, unless:  (1) an appeal is  
    filed pursuant to subsection B of this section, in which case the fees  
    appealed from are due and payable within ten (10) days after the date  
    of the written ruling, or (2) a waiver is requested and an alarm user  
    class is scheduled pursuant to subsection D of this section.  
  
    B.  An alarm system monitoring company wanting to contest a false  
    alarm fee shall file a written appeal with the Director within thirty  
    (30) days after the date of the notice.  A hearing shall be held by  
    the Director, or the Director's designee, not more than fourteen (14)  
    days from the date the appeal is filed.  Within twenty (20) days after  
    the hearing, the Department shall issue a written ruling including  
    factual findings and the Director's conclusion, with supporting  
    reasons, affirming or reversing the notice.  The Decision of the  
    Director shall be final.  
  
    C.  The Director may, but is not required to, delegate authority to  
    conduct hearings under this section to the Seattle Police Department.  
  
    D.  The Director may waive the first false alarm fee, on a one-time  
    basis, if the owner of the monitored alarm attends an alarm user class  
    as defined in Section 10.08.140 of the Seattle Municipal Code.  The  
    owner of the alarm must attend the class within 90 days of the date of  
    the false alarm billing.  
  
    Subchapter II - Fire Alarm Monitoring Companies  
  
      SMC 6.10.205  Definitions.  
  
    A.  "Fire alarm monitoring company" means any individual, partnership,  
    corporation, or other form of association that is listed with  
  
    Underwriters' Laboratories as a "Full Service Company" or "Monitoring  
    Company," and engages in the business of monitoring fire alarm systems  
    located within the city of Seattle.  
  
    B.  "Fire alarm system" means a system, or portion of a combination  
  
    system, that is approved by the Seattle Fire Department and that  
    consists of components and circuits arranged to monitor and annunciate  
    the status of fire alarm or supervisory signal-initiating devices and  
    to initiate the appropriate response to those signals.  This  
    definition  does not include heat or smoke detectors that are  
    installed in conjunction with property or burglary alarms as defined  
    in SMC 10.08.140, and that are not approved by the Seattle Fire  
    Department.  
  
    SMC 6.10.210  Fire Alarm Monitoring Companies - License Required -  
    Fee.  
  
    A.  It is unlawful for a fire alarm monitoring company to engage in  
    the business of monitoring fire alarm systems located within the city  
    of Seattle without first having obtained an annual license to do so.  
    The fee for such annual license is based upon two components:  (1) The  
    following aggregate amount:  
  
    Zero to 100 Seattle monitored alarm systems              $100.00 per annum;  
    101 to 200 Seattle monitored alarm systems               $200.00 per annum;  
    201 to 500 Seattle monitored alarm systems               $400.00 per annum;  
    Over 500 Seattle monitored alarm systems                 $500.00 per annum;  
  
    and (2) one of the following amounts for each fire alarm located in  
    Seattle and monitored by the fire alarm monitoring company at any time  
    during the calendar year:  
  
    a. Alarm systems required by Seattle Fire Code or Seattle Building  
    Code....$320.00 per alarm system, per annum;  
  
    b. Alarm systems not required by Seattle Fire Code or Seattle Building  
    Code $80.00 per alarm system, per annum.  
  
    B.  A heat or smoke detector that is installed in conjunction with a  
    property or burglar alarm and is not approved by the Seattle Fire  
    Department shall be subject only to the annual license fees and  
    related provisions contained in subchapter I.  
  
    C.  The license required pursuant to this subchapter is separate from  
    and in addition to any license required by any other chapter of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code including, but not limited to, that required  
    pursuant to Chapter 5.45, Business License Tax; Chapter 5.55, General  
    Administrative Provisions; and Chapter 6.08, pertaining to burglar  
    alarms installers.  
  
    D.  The issuance and renewal of a license pursuant to this subchapter  
    is conditioned upon the fire alarm monitoring company's continuing  
    conformance with all requirements of the Seattle Fire Code and the  
    Seattle Fire Department Administrative Rules for central station  
    monitoring.  
  
    SMC 6.10.215  Annual license and due date.  
  
    A.  The annual license renewal fee shall be payable in advance by the  
    fire alarm monitoring company on a calendar year basis, except in  
    2004, where the annual fee shall be due by April 1.  Licenses expire  
    on December 31 in the calendar year in which they were issued and must  
    be renewed by January 31 of the next year in order to avoid penalty.  
  
    B.  Application for, and renewal of, the annual license shall be on  
    forms specified by the Director and shall be accompanied by the  
    license fee.  Each annual application for, or renewal of, a license  
    shall contain a list of all buildings in which the applicant monitors  
    fire alarm systems, showing the street address for each building where  
    the applicant monitors fire alarm systems; the number of fire alarm  
    systems monitored by the applicant in each individual listed building;  
    and the name, addresses and telephone number for the owner of each  
    monitored fire alarm system.  
  
    SMC  6.10.220  Calculation of fees.  
  
    A. New fire alarm monitoring companies will pay the fee contained in  
    SMC 6.10.210 A (1), which shall be computed on the number of alarm  
    systems monitored at the time of initial application.  
  
    B.  The license fee component contained in SMC 6.10.210 A (1) shall  
    not be adjusted quarterly for the number of fire alarm systems  
    monitored each quarter, however the fee shall be prorated on a  
    quarterly basis at the time of initial application.  
  
    C.  The license fee component contained in SMC 6.10.210 A (2) shall be  
    adjusted quarterly to reflect additional alarm systems first monitored  
    during that quarter.  Each fire alarm monitoring company shall file  
    quarterly, in the format specified by the Director, a list of all  
    additional addresses at which it monitored alarms during such quarter,  
    the name of the corresponding subscriber, and the number of alarms at  
    such address.  The quarterly report shall be accompanied by payment of  
    the additional per-alarm-system fee due, if any.  See proration  
    calculations in SMC 6.10.230 below.  The quarterly report should also  
    list fire alarm systems that have been discontinued or, if known,  
    transferred to another fire alarm monitoring company.  
  
    D.  Each fire alarm monitoring company shall file a quarterly report  
    regardless of whether any additional fees are due.  
  
    SMC  6.10.230  License fee proration.  
  
    A.  In calculating the license fee component contained in SMC 6.10.210  
    A (1), only the initial license fee will be prorated on a quarterly  
    basis for applications made after the first quarter.  The license fee  
    component contained in SMC 6.10.210 A (2) will be prorated in equal  
    amounts on a quarterly basis for fire alarm systems that begin to be  
    monitored after the first quarter.  A credit will be given for the  
    prorated portion of the license fee contained in SMC 6.10.210 A (2)  
    paid by another fire alarm monitoring company for the present year on  
    a fire alarm system that is transferred from one company to another  
    fire alarm monitoring company; provided that satisfactory proof that  
    the license fee component contained in SMC 6.10.210 A (2) has been  
    paid is supplied to the Director.  
  
    SMC 6.10.240  Duty of licensee; License not transferable; Duty to  
    inform subscribers; Penalty and interest for failure to pay; Violation  
    - Civil penalties.  
  
    The provisions applicable to alarm system monitoring companies  
    contained in SMC 6.10.040, 6.10.050, 6.10.060, 6.10.080, and 6.10.090  
    shall be applicable to fire alarm monitoring companies as if fully set  
    forth herein.  Reference in these sections to the Seattle Police  
    Department shall be construed in this subchapter as reference to the  
    Seattle Fire Department.  Reference in the above sections to alarm  
    system monitoring companies shall be construed in this subchapter as  
    reference to fire alarm monitoring companies.  This chapter does not  
    modify any provision of SMC 12A.60.105, and is not intended to impose  
    any penalty for activating or triggering a false fire alarm.  
  
    SMC 6.10.250 Suspension or revocation of license.  
  
    The Director shall have the power and authority to suspend or revoke  
    any license issued under the provisions of this chapter as set forth  
    in SMC Chapter 6.02.  No suspended or revoked license may be  
    reinstated without prior payment of all fees due and outstanding.  A  
    fire alarm monitoring company whose license has been revoked or  
    suspended shall notify each of its subscribers of the revocation or  
    suspension.  The notice shall be in writing and shall be mailed to all  
    subscribers no later than the tenth calendar day following such  
    suspension or revocation.  
  
    Section 2.  Effective January 1, 2004, Sections 10.08.080, 10.08.090,  
    10.08.100, 10.08.110, 10.08.120, and 10.08.173 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code are hereby repealed in their entirety.  
  
    Section 3.  Effective January 1, 2004, Subsection A of Section  
    10.08.140 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC  10.08.140 Definitions.  
  
    As used in this subchapter, the following terms have the meanings  
    indicated unless the context clearly requires another interpretation:  
  
    A.  "Alarm system monitoring company" means any individual,  
    partnership, corporation, or other form of association that engages in  
    the business of monitoring property, burglary, robbery, or panic  
    alarms , and reporting any activation of such alarm systems to the  
    Seattle Police Department.  
  
    ***  
  
    Section 4.  Effective January 1, 2004, Section 10.08.140 of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code is amended to add three new subsections as  
    follows:  
  
    "Alarm user class" means a class provided by the Alarm Unit of the  
    Seattle Police Department for the purpose of educating alarm users  
    about false alarms.  
  
    "Alarm system" or "alarm device" means any system, device, or  
    mechanism which, when activated, transmits a telephonic, wireless,  
    electronic, video, or other form of message to an alarm system  
    monitoring company, or some other number, or emits an audible or  
    visible signal that can be heard or seen by persons outside the  
    protected premises, or transmits a signal beyond the premises in some  
    other fashion, except any system, device, or mechanism primarily  
    protecting a motor vehicle.  An alarm system or alarm device may  
    consist of one or more components (e.g., motion detector, window  
    breach detector, or similar components) all reporting to a central  
    unit/system panel which, in turn, is connected to or reports to an  
    alarm system monitoring company via telephonic, wireless, electronic,  
    video, or other form of message.  
  
  
    "Director" means the Director of Executive Administration of the City  
    or any officer, agent or employee of the City designated to act on the  
    Director's behalf.  
  
    The City's Code Reviser is authorized and directed to insert  
    these new subsections in alphabetical order, and to renumber SMC  
    10.08.140 accordingly.  
  
    Section 5.  Effective January 1, 2004, Section 10.08.165 of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC  10.08.165 Alarm system monitoring companies -- Verification  
    process.  
  
    Every alarm system monitoring company engaging in business activities  
    in Seattle shall:  
  
    A. Obtain a City of Seattle business license from the Department of  
    Finance Executive Administration as provided in SMC Chapter  
    6.10;  
  
    B. Provide the Chief of Police such information about the nature of  
    its property alarms, burglary alarms, robbery alarms, and panic  
    alarms; its method of monitoring; its program for preventing false  
    alarms; and its method of disconnecting audible alarms, each as the  
    Chief may require by rule adopted pursuant to the Administrative Code,  
    Chapter 3.02;  
  
       C.  Maintain a current list of all subscribers' names and the  
    associated protected premises it serves, which list shall be  
    accessible given to the Chief at all times  
    Director on a quarterly basis;  
  
      D. Verify with those subscribers who have an automatic alarm system,  
    each alarm signal that has been accepted by the alarm system  
    monitoring company Maintain using a verification  
    process with those subscribers who have an automatic alarm system  
    to prevent false alarms from resulting in unnecessary police  
    dispatches. ; and  
  
    A verification process is an independent method of determining that a  
    signal from an automatic alarm system reflects a need for police  
    assistance or investigation.  The means of verification shall include  
    one (1) or more of the following:  
  
    1.  An attempt by the alarm system monitoring company, or its  
    representative, to contact the alarm site and/or alarm user by  
    telephone and/or other electronic means, whether or not actual contact  
    with a person is made, to determine whether an alarm signal is valid  
    before requesting law enforcement dispatch, in an attempt to avoid an  
    unnecessary alarm dispatch request.  For the purpose of this  
    ordinance, telephone verification shall require, as a minimum, that a  
    second call be made to a different number if the first attempt fails  
    to reach an alarm user who can properly identify themselves to  
    determine whether an alarm signal is valid before requesting law  
    enforcement dispatch;  
  
  
    2.  A feature that permits the alarm system user or a person  
    authorized by the user to send a cancellation code to the alarm system  
    monitoring company that will cancel an alarm immediately after it has  
    been sent and prevent the monitoring company calling for a police  
    dispatch;  
  
  
    3.  The installation of a video system that provides the alarm system  
    monitoring company when the signal is received with the ability to  
    ascertain that activity is occurring which warrants police assistance  
    or investigation;  
  
  
    4.  An independent confirmation that a signal reflects a need for  
    police assistance or investigation either by the alarm system user, a  
    person at or near the premises, or an alternate response agency made  
    before dispatching police; or  
  
  
    5.  An alternate system that the Chief determines has or is likely to  
    have a high degree of reliability.  
  
    E. When the Chief reports that there appears to have been a false  
    alarm at a subscriber's premises, work cooperatively with the  
    subscriber and the Chief in order to determine the cause thereof and  
    prevent recurrences.  
  
    A verification process is an independent method of determining that a  
    signal from an automatic alarm system reflects a need for immediate  
    police assistance or investigation. The verification process shall not  
    take more than five (5) minutes calculated from the time that the  
    alarm signal has been accepted by the alarm system monitoring company  
    until a decision is made whether to call for a police dispatch. The  
    means of verification may include one (1) or more of the following:  
  
    1. The establishment of voice communication with an authorized person  
    at or near the premises who may indicate whether or not need for  
    immediate police assistance or investigation exists;  
  
  
    2. A feature that permits the alarm system user or a person authorized  
    by the user to send a special signal to the alarm system monitoring  
    company that will cancel an alarm immediately after it has been sent  
    and prevent the monitoring company calling for a police dispatch;  
  
  
    3. The installation of a video system that provides the alarm system  
    monitoring company when the signal is received with the ability to  
    ascertain that activity is occurring which warrants immediate police  
    assistance or investigation;  
  
  
    4. A confirmation that a signal reflects a need for immediate police  
    assistance or investigation either by the alarm system user, a person  
    at or near the premises, or an alternate response agency made before  
    dispatching police; or  
  
  
    5. An alternate system that the Chief determines has or is likely to  
    have a high degree of reliability.  
  
       Section 6.  Effective January 1, 2004, Section 10.08.173 of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code is hereby repealed.  
  
    Section 7.  Effective January 1, 2004, Section 10.08.178 of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC  10.08.178  Frequent false alarms - Process for disregarding false  
    alarms - In-person verification.  
  
    A. In exercising his or her discretion to make an immediate  
     a dispatch in response to an automatic property or automatic  
    burglary alarm, the Chief of Police shall may disregard  
    a call for emergency assistance dispatch when:  
  
    1. The premises are not a residence; and  
  
    2. The call comes from or is prompted by an automatic property  
    alarm or automatic burglary alarm that has a record of sending six (6)  
    false alarms within a period of twelve (12) months; and  
  
    3 2. The call is the only basis for making such a  
    dispatch.  
  
    The Chief may consider such a call as an additional factor in making  
    his or her decision to order an immediate a dispatch  
    when an in-person call, verification from an individual at  
    or near the premises, or other independent evidence,  
    shows a need for immediate police assistance at the  
    premises.  
  
    B. To discourage false alarms, the Chief may adopt a process of  
    sending a letter or delivering a notice by regular mail  
    informing the alarm system user monitoring company of  
    record of the consequences of a false alarm history,  
    the need to take corrective action, and the prospect that six (6)  
    false alarms within a twelve (12) month period shall result in the  
    automatic signals being disregarded and an in-person call or  
    verification being required or other independent information showing a  
    need for such a dispatch before an immediate a dispatch  
    will be made to the premises.  
  
    C. Before acting as authorized in subsection A of this section, the  
    Chief shall send or deliver a notice to the alarm system user monitoring company that:  
  
    1. Six (6) false alarms have been received within a twelve (12) month  
    period;  
  
    2. The remedy authorized in subsection A may be taken;  
  
    3. The user alarm system monitoring company may request  
    a hearing before the Chief or his designee and explain why the Chief  
    should not take the proposed action; if no hearing is requested, the  
    Seattle PoliceDepartment will after ten (10) days disregard  
    automatic signals from the premises without a call or  
    verification from an individual or other independent information  
    showing a need for such dispatch; and  
  
    4. A requirement of an in-person communication or verification may  
    remain in effect for a period of three hundred sixty-five (365) days.  
  
    D. If a hearing is requested, the Chief shall schedule the hearing  
    within ten (10) days.  Both the alarm user and a representative from  
    the alarm system monitoring company are required to attend. The  
    Chief may take into consideration such factors as the steps that the  
    alarm system user or alarm system monitoring company has taken or is  
    taking to correct the problem; the incidence of crime in the area; the  
    facts and circumstances of the false alarms; and other relevant  
    information presented by the user or the monitoring company.  
  
    E. The Chief may suspend or cancel the remedy under subsection A if he  
    or she determines that the automatic alarm system has been corrected  
    to prevent the recurrence of false alarms.  
  
    F. "Dispatch" or "immediate dispatch" means a discretionary  
    decision whether to direct police units to a location where there has  
    been a report made, by whatever means, that police assistance or  
    investigation is needed. There is no duty to dispatch or immediately  
    dispatch  under any circumstances whatever, whether automatic  
    alarms are involved or not, and all dispatch decisions are made  
    subject to competing priorities and available police response  
    resources.  
  
    Section 8.  Effective January 1, 2004, Section 10.08.180 of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 10.08.180  Violation - Civil penalties  
  
    A. 1. The failure of an alarm system monitoring company that  
    engages in business activities in Seattle to comply with any of the  
    requirements of Section 10.08.165 shall be a civil infraction as  
    contemplated by RCW Chapter 7.80 and subject as a Class 1 civil  
    infraction under RCW 7.80.120(2) to a maximum monetary penalty and a  
    default amount of Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00) plus statutory  
    assessments.  With respect to Subsections A, B, C, and E of Section  
    10.08.165, E each day of noncompliance shall be a  
    separate violation, and the monetary penalties shall accumulate.  With  
    respect to Subsection D of Section 10.08.165, each failure to verify  
    an alarm signal that has been accepted by the alarm system monitoring  
    company and results in a false alarm, shall be a separate violation.  
  
    2. The sending of a false alarm as described in Section 10.08.173  
    shall be a civil infraction as contemplated by RCW Chapter 7.80 and  
    subject as a Class 2 civil infraction under RCW 7.80.120(2) to a  
    maximum penalty and a default amount of One Hundred Twenty-five  
    Dollars ($125). Each sending of an alarm under the circumstances  
    described in Section 10.08.173shall be a separate violation, and the  
    monetary penalties shall accumulate.  
  
    B. The violation of or failure to comply with any other provisions of  
    this subchapter shall be a civil infraction as contemplated by RCW  
    Chapter 7.80 and subject as a Class 3 Class 1 civil  
    infraction under RCW 7.80.120(c) to a maximum penalty and a default  
    amount of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) Two Hundred Fifty Dollars  
    ($250) plus statutory assessments.  
  
    C. There shall be a maximum penalty and default amount of Twenty-  
    five Dollars ($25.00) Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250)  
    plus statutory assessments for any of the following:  
  
    1. As contemplated by RCW 7.80.080(1) and 7.80.070(2)(K), a failure to  
    respond to a notice of false alarm within fifteen (15) days from the  
    date of notice;  
  
  
    2. As contemplated by RCW 7.80.080(2) and 7.80.070(2)(K), a failure to  
    appear at a requested hearing; and  
  
  
    3. As as contemplated by RCW 7.80.160(3), for a  
    failure to pay a penalty imposed pursuant to subsection A or B.  
  
    D. If the court determines that a person has insufficient funds to  
    pay the monetary penalty, the court may order performance of a number  
    of hours of community service instead. The court may impose sanctions  
    upon person found in contempt of court as contemplated by RCW  
    7.80.160(3) and RCW Chapter 7.21.  
  
    E. The Seattle Municipal Court may waive the first civil penalty  
    incurred by an alarm system user and clear the notice of violation as  
    a warning if:  
  
  
    1. The notice describes a violation of Section 10.08.173;  
  
  
    2. The notice of violation is the first violation of Section 10.08.173  
    incurred by the alarm system user on or after September 1, 1993; and  
  
  
    3. Within fifteen (15) days after the date of the notice, the alarm  
    system user either follows the instructions on the back of the notice  
    to arrange an appearance in court or mails a written application to  
    the court requesting a waiver and clearance as a warning.  
  
    Section 9.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    Version 14  
    11/24/03  
    t  
