* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)114702**   
**Ordinance Number: 121285**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Section 23.44.051 of the Seattle Municipal Code regulating bed and breakfasts.  
  
**Status:** Passed as Amended   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 22, 2003   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 1, 2003   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 1, 2003   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 15, 2003   
**Committee:** Land Use   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN   
  
**Index Terms:** HOTELS, BUSINESS-ENTERPRISES, LAND-USE-PERMITS, LAND-USE-CODE, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** *(No fiscal note available at this time)*  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Section  
    23.44.051 of the Seattle Municipal Code regulating bed and breakfasts.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
    Section 1.  Section 23.44.051 of the Seattle Municipal Code, last  
    amended by Ordinance 120181, is further amended as follows.  
  
    SMC 23.44.051   Bed and breakfasts.  
  
    A. Bed and breakfasts shall be arepermitted  
    provided they meet the following standards:  
  
    1.  A business license for the bed and breakfast was is  
     secured from the Department of Finance on or before April 1,  
    1987;  
  
    2.  The bed and breakfast is operated by the fee owner of the dwelling  
    in which the bed and breakfast is located;  
  
    3.  The fee owner resides in the structure in which the bed and  
    breakfast is located;  
  
    4.  No more than two (2) people who reside outside the dwelling are  
    employed, with or without compensation, in the operation of the bed  
    and breakfast;  
  
    5.  The bed and breakfast is operated within the principal structure  
    ;  
  
    6.  which does not require s  No exterior  
    structural alterations are needed or made to accommodate the bed  
    and breakfast use;  
  
    6. 7.  There is no evidence of the bed and breakfast  
    from the exterior of the structure; andand  
  
    8.  The bed and breakfast has no more than three (3) guest rooms or  
    suites available to guests . , provided that this  
    limitation does not apply to bed and breakfasts that were established  
    on or before and have been continuously operated as a bed and  
    breakfast since April 1, 1987; and  
  
    9.  Parking is provided as required in Chapter 23.54.  
  
    Section 2.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty  
    (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed  
    by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day  
    of __________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
  
    8/16/03  
    version #4  
    ta  
