* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)116264**   
**Ordinance Number: 122771**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE related to land use and zoning, amending Sections 23.60.600, 23.60.606, 23.60.660, 23.60.720, and 23.60.900 of the Seattle Municipal Code, to re-enact amendments included in Ordinance 122310 with changes required by the Washington State Department of Ecology and to make a technical clarification.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 18, 2008   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Harrell, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 21, 2008   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 21, 2008   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 7, 2008   
**Committee:** Planning, Land Use and Neighborhoods   
**Sponsor:** CLARK   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, COMMERCIAL-AREAS, SHORELANDS, LAND-USE-PLANNING  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 122310  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/116264.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)116264  
  
**Electronic Copy: ** [PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122771](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122771.pdf)  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE related to land use and zoning, amending Sections  
    23.60.600, 23.60.606, 23.60.660, 23.60.720, and 23.60.900 of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code, to re-enact amendments included in Ordinance  
    122310 with changes required by the Washington State Department of  
    Ecology and to make a technical clarification.  
  
    WHEREAS Ordinance 122310 was passed in December 2006 to amend various  
    sections of Chapter 23.60 of the Seattle Municipal Code to correspond  
    to changes in land use classifications and definitions made by  
    Ordinance 122311, which enacted a new Chapter 23.47A for commercial  
    zones and a new definitions chapter, 23.84A; and  
  
    WHEREAS Ordinance 122310 is not yet effective, pending approval by  
    the Washington State Department of Ecology as required by with State  
    law for changes to a Shoreline Master Program, and such department  
    requires revisions to certain amendments set forth in Ordinance  
    122310; and  
  
    WHEREAS the revisions required by the Department of Ecology are  
    consistent with the intent of the Mayor and City Council in Ordinance  
    122310; NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
          Section 1.  Section 23.60.600 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 120927, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    23.60.600  Uses permitted outright on waterfront lots in the US  
    Environment.  
  
          The following uses shall be permitted outright on waterfront  
    lots in the Urban Stable environment as either principal or accessory  
    uses:  
  
          A.  The following residential uses:  
  
                1.  Residences on dry land when the underlying zoning is  
    Residential Commercial (RC) and when the residential use is located  
    above the ground floor of a structure containing nonresidential uses  
    on the ground floor,  
  
                2.  Existing residences on dry land provided there is no  
    increase in the number of units,  
  
                3.  Existing over-water single-family residences provided  
    there is no additional water coverage, and  
  
                4.  Floating home moorages or the expansion of floating  
    home moorages, when:  
  
                      a.  Located in Lake Union or Portage Bay,  
  
                      b.  Occupied solely by no more than two (2)  
    existing floating homes as defined in subsection A4 of Section  
    23.60.196, under any of the following conditions:  
  
                            (1)  The floating homes have been evicted  
    from other moorage pursuant to the provisions of subsections E, G or  
    H of Section 7.20.040, Seattle Municipal Code, or  
  
                            (2)  The floating homes have been relocated  
    from other moorage pursuant to a settlement agreement entered into  
    prior to April 1, 1987, between a moorage owner and a tenant  
    floating-home owner arising out of a legal action for eviction,  
  
                      c.  No more than one (1) such moorage or moorage  
    expansion is permitted per lot established as of April 1, 1987, and  
  
                      d.  The moorage is added to a recreational marina,  
    commercial moorage, or floating home moorage existing as of the  
    effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter  
    December 31, 1987;  
  
          B.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Marine retailsales and services,  
  
                2.  Food processing, water-related, and  
  
                3.  Wholesale showroom,mini-warehouse, warehouse  
    and open storage, water-related, and;  
  
          C.  Storage uses, water-related;  
  
  
          4D.  The following transportation facility  
    uses:  
  
          1.  Passenger terminals, water-dependent,  
  
          2.  Boat moorage,  
  
          3.  Dry boat storage, and  
  
  
          4.  Tugboat services;  
  
          CE.   1.  The following non-water-dependent  
    commercial uses on dry land when the requirements of subsection C  
    E2 are met:  
  
                      a.  Personal and household retailGeneral  
     sales and services,  
  
                      b.  Major durables retail sales,  
  
                      bc.  Eating and drinking  
    establishments,  
  
                      cd.  Offices outside the Lake Union  
    area,  
  
                      de.  Offices in the Lake Union area  
    above the ground floor of a structure when permitted uses other than  
    office or residential uses occupy the ground-floor level, and parking  
    on the ground-floor level is limited to required parking,  
  
                      ef.  Entertainment uses, and  
  
                      fg.  Custom and craft work,  
  
                2.  The uses listed in subsection CE1 shall  
    be permitted when a water- dependent use occupies forty (40) percent  
    of the dry-land portion of the lot or the development provides one  
    (1) or more of the following facilities or amenities in addition to  
    regulated public access:  
  
                      a.  Facilities for the moorage, restoration, or  
    reconstruction of one (1) or more historic vessels,  
  
                      b.  Terminal facilities for one (1) or more cruise  
    ships, harbor tour boats, or foot passenger ferries,  
  
                      c.  More than five hundred (500) lineal feet of  
    moorage for commercial fishing vessels at rates equivalent to that  
    charged at public moorage facilities,  
  
                      d.  Facilities for a maritime museum or waterfront  
    interpretive center that is a separate nonprofit organization  
    existing at time of application,  
  
                      e.  More than one thousand five hundred (1,500)  
    lineal feet of saltwater moorage for recreational vessels,  
  
                      f.  A major public open space, occupying at least  
    one-third (1/3) of the dry-land lot area, which that  
    includes a public walkway with benches and picnic tables along the  
    entire water frontage, and connecting public walkways to adjacent  
    sites and any nearby public parks or other public facilities. The  
    Director shall require adequate signed parking for the open space, or  
  
                      g. Other facilities or amenities similar to those  
    listed above thatwhich provide an opportunity for  
    substantial numbers of people to enjoy the shoreline, when approved  
    by the Director;  
  
          DF. Streets, railroads and bridges;  
  
          EG. The following utilities:  
  
          1. Utility lines,  
  
          2. Utility service uses whose operations require a shoreline  
    location, and  
  
          3. Minor communication utilities, except freestanding  
    transmission towers;  
  
          FH. Light and general manufacturing uses, water-  
    dependent or water-related;  
  
          GI. Water-dependent or water-related institutions  
    or facilities of institutions, except non-water-dependent facilities  
    of yacht, boat and beach clubs;  
  
          HJ. Yacht, boat or beach clubs which have non-  
    water-dependent facilities, provided that such facilities may be  
    located over water only when:  
  
          1. The dry-land portion of the lot is less than fifty (50) feet  
    in depth,  
  
          2. Location of such facilities on the dry-land portion of the  
    lot is not feasible, and  
  
          3. The facilities or amenities required by Section 23.60.600 C  
    are provided;  
  
          IK. Public facilities, water-dependent or water-  
    related;  
  
          JL. Open space uses; and  
  
          KM. Aquaculture.  
  
          Section 2.  Section 23.60.606 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 120927, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    23.60.606  Prohibited uses on waterfront lots in the US Environment.  
  
          The following uses shall be prohibited as principal uses on  
    waterfront lots in the US environment:  
  
          A. New residences over water and residential uses at or below  
    the ground floor, except as permitted as conditional uses by  
    pursuant to Section 23.60.604;  
  
          B.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Medical services,  
  
                2.  Animal shelters and kennelsservices,  
  
                3.  Pet grooming,  
  
                34.  Automotive retailsales and  
    services,  
  
                45.  Lodging,  
  
                5.  Mortuary services,  
  
                6.Parking, principal use,Food processing, non-  
    water-dependent,  
  
                7.  NonhouseholdHeavy sales and services  
    except water-related wholesale showrooms,  
  
                8.  Ground-level offices in the Lake Union area,  
  
                9.  Non-water-dependent wholesale showroom, mini-  
    warehouse, warehouse and outdoor storage uses, Research and  
    development laboratories, and  
  
                10.  Off-premises signs,;  
  
          C.  The following transportation facility uses:  
  
                1.  Parking, principal use,  
  
  
                112.  Personal transportation services,  
  
                123.  Passenger terminals, non-water-  
    dependent,  
  
                134.  Cargo terminals,  
  
                145.  Transit vehicle bases,  
  
                156.  Helistops and heliports, and  
  
                167.  Airports, land-based,;  
  
                17.  Food processing, non-water-dependent, and  
  
                18.  Research and development laboratory;  
  
  
          C.  Salvage and recycling uses;  
  
          D.  The following manufacturing uses:  
  
                1.  Light and general manufacturing, non-water-dependent,  
    and  
  
                2.  Heavy manufacturing uses;  
  
          E.  High-impact uses;  
  
          F.  The following utilities:  
  
                1.  Major communication utilities,  
  
                2.  Solid waste managementtransfer stations,  
  
                3.  Power plants,  
  
                4.  Recycling uses,  
  
                5.  Sewage treatment plants, and  
  
                56.  Freestanding transmission towers for  
    minor communication utilities;  
  
          G.  Storage uses;  
  
          GH.  Public facilities not authorized by  
    pursuant to Section 23.60.612 and those that are non-water-  
    dependent;  
  
          HI.  Institutional uses, non-water-dependent;  
  
          IJ.  Agricultural uses except aquaculture; and  
  
          JK.  Groins and similar structures which   
    that block the flow of sand to adjacent beaches, except drift  
    sills or other structures which that are part of a  
    natural beach protection system.  
  
          Section 3.  Section 23.60.660 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 120927, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    23.60.660  Uses permitted outright on waterfront lots in the UH  
    Environment.  
  
          The following uses shall be permitted over water or on dry-land  
    portions of waterfront lots in the Urban Harborfront environment as  
    either principal or accessory uses:  
  
          A.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Personal and household retailGeneral  
    sales and services,  
  
                2.  Marine retailsales and services,  
  
                3.  Eating and drinking establishments,  
  
                4.  Existing hotels, provided that expansion of the hotel  
    use shall be prohibited and expansion only for public access shall be  
    permitted,  
  
                5.  Parking over water when accessory to a water-  
    dependent or water- related use,  
  
                6.  Parking on dry land when accessory to a permitted  
    use,  
  
  
                75.  Offices when located above wharf level,  
  
                86.  Entertainment uses,  
  
                9.  Passenger terminals, water-dependent,  
  
                10.  Breakbulk cargo terminals,  
  
  
                117.  Research and development laboratories,  
    water-dependent, and  
  
                128.  Food processing and craft work uses;  
  
          B.  The following transportation facilities:  
  
                1.  Parking over water when accessory to a water-  
    dependent or water- related use,  
  
  
                2.  Parking on dry land when accessory to a permitted  
    use,  
  
  
                3.  Passenger terminals, water-dependent,  
  
  
                4.  Breakbulk cargo terminals,  
  
  
                5.  Boat moorage,  
  
  
                6. Dry boat storage, and  
  
  
                7. Tugboat services;  
  
  
          BC.  Light manufacturing uses, water-dependent  
    or water-related;  
  
          CD.  Streets, railroads and bridges;  
  
          DE.  The following institutions:  
  
                1.  Institutes for advanced study, water-dependent or  
    water-related,  
  
                2.  Maritime museums,  
  
                3.  Colleges that have water-dependent or water-related  
    facilities,  
  
                4.  Community centers,  
  
                5.  Vocational schools, water-dependent or water-related,  
  
                6.  Community yacht, boat, and beach clubs, and  
  
                7.  Child care centers when located above wharf level;  
  
          EF.  The following public facilities:  
  
                1.  Public facilities, water-dependent or water-related,  
    and  
  
                2.  Public facilities that are part of an approved public  
    improvement plan for the Harbor front Harborfront adopted  
    by the Council;  
  
          FG. Shoreline Recreation;  
  
          GH. Aquaculture; and  
  
          HI. Minor communication utilities, except  
    freestanding transmission towers.  
  
          Section 4.  Section 23.60.720 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was amended by Ordinance 120927, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.60.720 Uses permitted outright on waterfront lots in the UM  
    Environment.  
  
          The following uses shall be permitted outright on waterfront  
    lots in the Urban Maritime Environment as either principal or  
    accessory uses:  
  
          A.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Marine retailsales and services, except   
    marinas and sale and rental of small boats, boat parts  
    orand accessories,  
  
          2. Tugboat services,  
  
                3.Wholesale showrooms, warehouse and outdoor  
    storage uses,water- dependent or water-related, and  
  
          4.  Passenger terminals, water-dependent,  
  
          5.  Cargo terminals, water-dependent or water-related,  
  
  
          63.  Food processing, water-dependent or water-  
    related;  
  
          B.  The following transportation facilities:  
  
          1.  Tugboat services,  
  
  
          2.  Passenger terminals, water-dependent,   
  
          3.  Cargo terminals, water-dependent or water-related,  
  
                4.  Commercial moorage, except covered wet commercial  
    moorage on Lake Union and Portage Bay, and  
  
  
          5.  Dry boat storage;  
  
  
          C.  The following storage uses:  
  
  
          1.  Warehouses, water-dependent or water-related, and  
  
  
          2.  Outdoor storage, water-dependent or water-related;  
  
  
          BD.  Streets, railroads and bridges;  
  
          CE.  The following utilities:  
  
                1.  Utility lines,  
  
                2.  Utility publicservice uses whose operations  
    require a shoreline location, and  
  
                3.  Minor communication utilities, except freestanding  
    transmission towers;  
  
          DF.  The following institutional uses:  
  
                1.  Water-dependent or water-related research and  
    education facilities of colleges and universities,  
  
          2.  Shoreline recreation facilities of schools, colleges and  
    universities, and  
  
                3.  Water-dependent or water-related colleges, institutes  
    for advanced study and vocational schools;  
  
          EG.  Light and general manufacturing uses, water-  
    dependent or water-related;  
  
          FH.  Public facilities, water-dependent or water-  
    related;  
  
          GI.  Shoreline recreation uses; and  
  
          HJ.  Aquaculture.  
  
          Section 5.  Section 23.60.900 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was enacted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:  
  
    23.60.900  Definitions generally.  
  
          For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are  
    defined.  The definitions established in this Subchapter XVI are in  
    addition to definitions contained in Chapters 24.08 and 23.84  
    A, which are also applicable to this chapter. In the event that a  
    definition in this chapter differs from a definition of the same term  
    in Chapter 24.08 or Chapter 23.84A, the definition in  
    this chapter shall apply in the Shoreline District.  
  
          Section 6.  Sections 12, 14, 17, 21, and 32 of Ordinance 122310  
    are repealed.  The intent of this ordinance is that when Ordinance  
    122310 becomes effective, the amendments set forth in Sections 1  
    through 5 of this ordinance shall take effect instead of the  
    amendments set forth in Sections 12, 14, 17, 21, and 32 of Ordinance  
    122310.  
  
          Section 7.   Sections 1 through 5 of this ordinance shall not  
    take effect until the effective date of approval by the Washington  
    State Department of Ecology of the amendments to the City's Shoreline  
    Master Program made by Ordinance 122310, modified as set forth in  
    this ordinance.  Subject to the previous sentence, this ordinance  
    shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its  
    approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor  
    within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as  
    provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2008.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2008.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2008.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Brennon Staley/BS  
  
    DPD - Commercial Code Shoreline Amending - ORD.doc  
  
    May 22, 2008  
  
    version #1  
  
    13  
