* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)116245**   
**Ordinance Number: 122730**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to the Multifamily Tax Exemption Program; amending Sections 5.73.010, 5.73.020, 5.73.030, 5.73.040, 5.73.050, 5.73.065, 5.73.070, 5.73.090, 5.73.100, and 5.73.120 of the Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
**Status:** Passed as Amended   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 30, 2008   
**Vote:** 7-1 (No: Licata; Excused: Rasmussen)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 7, 2008   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 7, 2008   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 16, 2008   
**Committee:** Housing and Economic Development   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER   
  
**Index Terms:** MULTI-FAMILY  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/116245.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)116245  
  
**Electronic Copy: ** [PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122730](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122730.pdf)  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to the Multifamily Tax Exemption Program;  
    amending Sections 5.73.010, 5.73.020, 5.73.030, 5.73.040, 5.73.050,  
    5.73.065, 5.73.070, 5.73.090, 5.73.100, and 5.73.120 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code.  
  
    WHEREAS, Chapter 5.73 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as adopted by  
    Ordinance 121415 and amended by Ordinance 121915, implements Chapter  
    84.14 of the Revised Code of Washington concerning tax exemption for  
    qualified Multifamily Housing; and  
  
    WHEREAS, amendments to Chapter 84.14 of the Revised Code of  
    Washington during the 2007 Regular Session require amendments to  
    Chapter 5.73 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and  
  
    WHEREAS, Ordinance 121415 requests the Executive to periodically  
    prepare reports on program activity and recommend program  
    modifications if needed; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Executive's report contains recommendations for program  
    amendments; and  
  
    WHEREAS, housing market conditions have significantly changed since  
    the last program review of the Multifamily Tax Exemption Program  
    (MFTE) in 2005, requiring reconsideration of affordability  
    guidelines, Residential Targeted Areas, and other program  
    requirements in order for the program to continue to offer effective  
    incentives to developers; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City Council finds that those areas within the City  
    designated as urban center villages, hub urban villages or  
    residential urban villages in the Land Use Element of the City's  
    Comprehensive Plan satisfy the requirements of an Urban Center, as  
    defined in this Ordinance and RCW 84.14.040; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City Council finds that each additional Residential  
    Targeted Area contained in this Ordinance is located within an Urban  
    Center as defined in this Ordinance and RCW 84.14.040; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City Council finds that each additional Residential  
    Targeted Area contained in this Ordinance lacks sufficient available,  
    desirable, and convenient residential housing, including affordable  
    housing, to meet the needs of the public who would be likely to live  
    in the area if affordable, desirable, attractive and livable  
    residences were available; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City Council finds that designating additional  
    Residential Targeted Areas  will encourage increased residential  
    opportunities in Urban Centers that have insufficient housing by  
    stimulating the construction of new multifamily housing, including  
    affordable housing, and the rehabilitation of existing vacant and  
    underutilized buildings for multifamily housing, including affordable  
    housing; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City Council solicited public comment regarding  
    designation of additional Residential Targeted Areas at a public  
    hearing on May 21, 2008; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City finds that workers living close to jobs has  
    environmental, transportation, and community benefits; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City expects that a minimum of five hundred (500) units  
    of rental housing affordable to households earning at or below ninety  
    percent (90%) of Median Income will be developed over the next two  
    (2) years with MFTE;  
  
    NOW, THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
      Section 1.  Section 5.73.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which  
    section was adopted by Ordinance 121415, is amended as follows:  
  
          Section 5.73.010  Purpose  
  
          A.  The purposes of this Chapter are:  
  
                1.  To encourage more mMultifamily hHousing  
    opportunities within the City;  
  
                2.  To stimulate thenew construction of  
    new multifamily housing and the rehabilitation of existing vacant  
    and underutilized buildings for mMultifamily hHousing;  
  
                3.  To increase the supply of mMultifamily  
    hHousing opportunities within the City for low and moderate  
    income households;  
  
                4.  To assist in accomplishing the planning goals  
    required under the Growth Management Act, RCW chapter 36.70A, as  
    implemented by the City's Comprehensive Plan, by increase  
    ing the supply of mMultifamily hHousing  
    opportunities in uUrban cCenters that are  
    behind in meeting their 20-year residential growth targets, i.e.,  
    areas that have met 25% or less of their 20-year residential growth  
    target as indicated in the January 2004 update to Appendix 1 of the  
    March 2003 Department of Planning and Development report "Monitoring  
    Our Progress:  Seattle's Comprehensive Plan;"1based on  
    Department of Planning and Development (DPD) statistics;  
  
                5.  To promote community development, affordable  
    housing, and neighborhood revitalization in rResidential  
    tTargeted aAreas;  
  
                6.  To preserve and protect buildings, objects, sites and  
    neighborhoods with historic, cultural, architectural, engineering or  
    geographic significance located within the City;  
  
                7.  To encourage the creation of both rental and  
    homeownership "workforce housing," i.e., housing affordable to  
    households earning between 60% and 80% of median income, that would  
    not otherwise be developed by the market in residential targeted  
    areas. housing for Seattle's workers who have difficulty  
    finding affordable housing within the City;  
  
                8.  To encourage the creation of mixed-income housing  
    that is affordable to households with a range of incomes in r  
    Residential tTargeted aAreas; and  
  
                9.   To encourage the development of Multifamily  
    Housing along major transit corridors.  
  
          B.  Any one or more of these purposes may be furthered by  
    the designation of a rResidential tTargeted  
    aArea under this chapter.  
  
          Section 2.  Section 5.73.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which section was previously amended by Ordinance 121915, is hereby  
    amended as follows:  
  
          Section 5.73.020  Definitions  
  
          A.  "Affordable rRent" means that the annual rent  
    plus tenant paid utilities for the unit do not exceed thirty  
    (30%) of the percentage of mMedian annual  
    iIncome designated by this chapter for qualifying units  
    for the residential targeted area in which the unit is located.  
  
          B.  "Affordable Unit" means a unit that is rented at an  
    Affordable Rent to an Income Eligible Occupant, or sold to an  
    Income Eligible Occupant for owner-occupied Multifamily Housing.  
  
    C.  "Assessor" means the King County Assessor.  
  
          D.  "Director" means the Director of the City's Office of  
    Housing, or any other City office, department or agency that shall  
    succeed in its functions with respect to this chapter, or his or her  
    authorized designee.  
  
          E.  "Economically Distressed Area" means all or a portion of a  
    Housing Investment Area designated in the 2004 Update to  
    Seattle's Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development  
    as updated from time to time., adopted by Ordinance 114710.1  
  
          F.  "Household aAnnual iIncome" means  
    the aggregate annual income of all persons over eighteen (18) years  
    of age residing within the same household for a period of at least  
    one (1) month.  
  
          G.  "Income Eligible Occupant" means that the hHousehold  
    aAnnual iIncome at initial occupancy of the tenant  
    household that will occupy the rental unit, at the time of the tenant  
    household's initial occupancy, is no greater than the percentage of m  
    Median iIncome designated in this chapter. A person  
    shall not cease to be an Income Eligible Occupant solely because the  
    hHousehold aAnnual iIncome  
    exceeds the annual income limit set forth in this chapter after the  
    date of initial occupancy.  
  
          H.  "Median iIncome" means annual family median  
    income for the Seattle-Bellevue-Everett Primary Metropolitan  
    Statistical Area, as published from time to time by HUD.  
    , and as adjusted for household size according to the method used by  
    HUD for income limits in subsidized housing.  For purposes of rent  
    limits, median income generally is adjusted according to the presumed  
    family size based on the number of bedrooms in a unit, consistent  
    with HUD rules for the HOME program.  
  
          I.  "Multifamily hHousing" means a building or  
    buildings, including associated housing improvements, having four  
    (4) or more dwelling units in each building, designed for p  
    Permanent rResidential oOccupancy  
    resulting from new construction or rehabilitation or conversion of  
    vacant, underutilized, or substandard buildings.  
  
    J.  "Owner" means the property owner of record of the  
    multifamily housing.  
  
          K.  "Permanent rResidential oOccupancy" means  
    mMultifamily hHousing that provides either  
    rental or owner occupancy for a period of at least one (1)  
    month.  This excludes hotels and motels that predominately offer  
    rental accommodation on a daily or weekly basis.  
  
          L.  "Project" means the Multifamily hHousing or  
    portion of the Multifamily Housing that is to receive the tax  
    exemption, which Multifamily housing is located or to be located  
    on real property owned by one owner.  
  
          M.  "Rehabilitation iImprovements" means (1)  
    modifications to an existing building, the residential portion of  
    which has been vacant for at least twelve (12) months  
    prior to application for exemption under this chapter, that are made  
    to achieve a condition of sSubstantial cCompliance with  
    the applicable building and construction codes contained or incorporated  
    in Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) Chapter 22; or (2)  
    modifications to an existing occupied residential building or mixed use  
    mixed-use building that contains occupied residential units, that  
    which add at least four (4) multifamily housing  
    new dwelling units.  
  
          N.  "Residential tTargeted aArea" means  
    an area within an uUrban cCenter that has  
    been so designated by the City Council pursuant to this chapter.  
  
          O.  "Substantial Compliance" means compliance with the  
    applicable building and construction codes contained or  
    incorporated in SMC Chapter 22 that is typically required for  
    rehabilitation as opposed to new construction.  
  
          P.  "Urban cCenter" has the same meaning as "urban  
    center" as defined in RCW 84.14.010, and for purposes of this  
    chapter includes, among other areas, any neighborhood that is within  
    an area designated as either an urban center village, a hub urban  
    village or a residential urban village in the City's Comprehensive  
    Plan.  
  
          Section 3.  Section 5.73.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which section was adopted by Ordinance 121415, is hereby amended to  
    repeal existing Attachment A: Maps 1-17 and to add a new Attachment  
    A: Maps 1-39, which is attached to this ordinance as Exhibit 1.  
    Section 5.73.030 is further amended as follows:  
  
    Section 5.73.030  Residential tTargeted a  
    Areas - Criteria - Designation  
  
          A.  Following notice and public hearing as prescribed in RCW  
    84.14.040, the Council may designate one or more rResidential  
    tTargeted aAreas upon a finding by the Council in its  
    sole discretion that the rResidential tTargeted  
    aArea meets the following criteria:  
  
                1.  The rResidential tTargeted  
    aArea is within an uUrban cCenter;  
  
                2.  The rResidential tTargeted  
    aArea lacks sufficient available, desirable and convenient  
    residential housing, including affordable housing, to meet the  
    needs of the public who would be likely to live in the uUrban  
    cCenter if desirable, attractive, affordable and livable  
    residences were available; and  
  
                3.  Providing additional housing opportunity  
    , including affordable housing, in the rResidential  
    tTargeted aArea will assist in achieving one or  
    more of the following purposes:  
  
      a..  Encourage increased residential opportunities within the City;  
    or  
  
      b.  Stimulate the construction of new affordable Mmultifamily  
    housing; or  
  
      c.  Encourage the rehabilitation of existing vacant and  
    underutilized buildings for Multifamily housing.  
  
          B.  In designating a rResidential tTargeted  
    aArea, the Council may also consider other factors, including:  
  
                1.  Whether an increased permanent residential population  
    in the rResidential tTargeted aArea will  
    help to achieve the planning goals mandated by the Growth Management Act under  
    RCW 36.70A;, as implemented through the City's Comprehensive Plan for  
    those urban centers that are behind in meeting their 20-year residential growth  
    targets in the Comprehensive Plan, i.e., areas that have met 25% or less of  
    their residential growth target, as indicated in the January 2004 update to  
    Appendix 1 of the March 2003 Department of Planning and Development report  
    "Monitoring Our Progress: Seattle's Comprehensive Plan;"1  
  
                2.  Whether the area is an Economically Distressed Area;  
  
                3.  Whether the City has identified the area or  
    neighborhood by Resolution as one in which the City wants to  
    encourage the development of mixed-income housing, including  
    affordable housing;  
  
                4.  Whether the area or neighborhood was designated as a  
    rResidential tTargeted neighborhoodArea in  
    the City's prior Multifamily Tax Exemption program, RCW chapter 5.72, and is one  
    in which the City wants to encourage the development of mixed- income  
    housing, including affordable housing.  
  
          C.  At any time the Council may, by oOrdinance, in its  
    sole discretion, amend or rescind the designation of a rResidential  
    tTargeted aArea pursuant to the same procedural  
    requirements set forth in RCW 84.14.040 for original designation.  
  
          D.  The following areas, as shown in Attachment A, Maps 1  
    through 1739, are designated as rResidential  
    tTargeted aAreas under this chapter:  
  
    1.  23rd & JacksonUnion - Jackson Union   
    2.  Bitter Lake  
    3.  Capitol Hill  
    4.  Chinatown- International District  
    5.  Columbia City  
    6.  Denny Triangle  
    7.  First Hill  
    8.  MLK @ Holly  
    9.  North Beacon Hill  
    10.  North Rainier  
    11.  Northgate  
    12.  Pioneer Square  
    13.  Rainier Beach  
    14.  South Lake Union  
    15.  South Park  
    16.  University District NW  
    17.  Delridge/Westwood-Highland Park  
    18.  12th Avenue  
    19.  Pike/Pine  
    20.  Belltown  
    21.  Ravenna  
    22.  Ballard  
    23.  Fremont  
    24.  Lake City  
    25.  West Seattle Junction  
    26.  Admiral  
    27.  Aurora-Licton Springs  
    28.  Crown Hill  
    29.  Eastlake  
    30.  Green Lake  
    31.  Greenwood-Phinney Ridge  
    32.  Madison-Miller  
    33.  Morgan Junction  
    34.  Upper Queen Anne  
    35.  Roosevelt  
    36.  Wallingford  
    37.  Dravus  
    38.  Uptown  
    39.  Commercial Core  
  
          E.  If a part of any legal lot is within a rResidential  
    tTargeted aArea as shown in Attachment A, Maps 1 through  
    1739, then the entire lot shall be deemed to lie within such  
    rResidential tTargeted aArea.  
  
          Section 4.  Section 5.73.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which section was adopted by Ordinance 121415, is hereby amended as  
    follows:  
  
    Section 5.73.040   Eligibility  
  
          To be eligible for exemption from property taxation under  
    this chapter, the multifamily housing must satisfy all of the  
    following requirementsA.  To be eligible for exemption from  
    property taxation, in addition to other requirements set forth in  
    this Chapter 5.73, the Multifamily Housing, for either rental or  
    homeownership occupancy, must be in compliance with the applicable  
    requirements below for the entire exemption period:  
  
                A1.  The mMultifamily hHousing  
    must be located in a rResidential tTargeted  
    aArea.  
  
                B2.  The mMultifamily hHousing  
    must be part of a residential or mixed-use project (combining residential and  
    non-residential), in which at least fifty percent of the gross floor area  
    within such project is intended for permanent residential occupancy.  
  
                3.  The Multifamily Housing must provide for a minimum  
    of fifty percent (50%) of the space in each building for Permanent  
    Residential Occupancy.  
  
                C4.  For new construction, a minimum of  
    four (4) new dwelling units must be created; for rehabilitation  
    or conversion of existing occupied structures, a minimum of four   
    (4) additional dwelling units must be added.  
  
                D5.  For rehabilitation or conversion of  
    existing vacant buildings, the residential portion of the buildings  
    shall have been vacant for at least twelve (12) months before  
    application for tax exemption, the buildings must fail to comply  
    with one or more standards of the applicable building and  
    construction code contained or incorporated in SMC Chapter 22 and  
    upon completion of rehabilitation or conversion the building must   
    , and the rehabilitation improvements shall achieve a condition of  
    sSubstantial cCompliance with the applicable building  
    and construction codes contained in Chapter 22.  
  
                E6  For rehabilitation or conversion of  
    existing occupied buildings, there shall be no "displacement" of  
    existing residential tenants, as such term is defined in Section  
    22.210.030 (E);  
  
                F7.  For new construction, where an existing  
    rental housing building that contained four (4) or more  
    dwelling units that were occupied and demolished on the site of the  
    new project within eighteen (18) months prior to the  
    application for exemption under this chapter, the oOwner  
    shall agree, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director, to  
    replace any units within such building that were rented to tenants  
    who received a tenant relocation assistance payment under SMC  
    Chapter 22.210, subject to the following requirements:  
  
                        1a.  For the first tentwelve  
    10 (12) calendar years of operation of the replacement  
    units, the replacement units shall be affordable at or below fifty  
    percent (50%) of mMedian iIncomeas adjusted  
    for household size according to the method used by HUD for income limits in  
    subsidized housing and according to HUD rules for the HOME program for presumed  
    family size based on the number of bedrooms in a unit.  
  
                            2b.  Replacement may be  
    accomplished either as part of the new construction for which  
    application for exemption is made under this chapter, or through the  
    new construction of additional Mmultifamily housing at  
    another location, or through the substantial rehabilitation of vacant  
    Mmultifamily housing, or through the preservation of  
    Mmultifamily housing that is rented at the time of application  
    to tenants with hHousehold aAnnual i  
    Income at or below fifty percent (50%) of m  
    Median iIncome as adjusted for household size  
    according to the method used by HUD for income limits in subsidized  
    housing and according to HUD rules for the HOME program for presumed  
    family size based on the number of bedrooms in a unit, and that  
    the Director determines would otherwise be converted to a use other  
    than rental to tenants with such income.  
  
                        3c.  The replacement housing shall be  
    completed, and a temporary or permanent certificate of occupancy  
    shall be issued, within three (3) years from the date of  
    approval of the application as described in Subsection 5.73.060,  
    provided that the Director may extend the time for completion if the Director  
    finds that:  
  
              ai.  The failure to complete the replacement  
    housing is due to circumstances beyond the oOwner's  
    control;  
  
              bii.  The oOwner has been acting  
    and may reasonably be expected to continue to act in good faith and  
    with due diligence; and  
  
              ciii.  The replacement housing will be  
    completed within a reasonable time.  
  
            4d.  Where the existing rental housing building  
    was demolished before the effective date of this Chapter 5.73, the  
    requirements of this subsection do not apply.  
  
    G.    Multifamily Housing Rental Projects - Affordability and  
    Right of First Offer  
  
      1.  Affordability.  For rental Multifamily housing, an owner shall  
    comply with one of the following:  
  
  
      a.  A minimum of 20% of the units shall be rented at Affordable  
    Rents to Income Eligible Occupants whose household income is at or  
    below 60% of Median Income;  
  
  
       b.  A minimum of 25% of the units shall be rented at Affordable  
    Rents to Income Eligible Occupants whose household income is at or  
    below 65% of Median Income; or  
  
  
          c. A minimum of 30% of he units shall be rented at Affordable  
    Rents to Income Eligible Occupants whose household income is at or  
    below 70% of Median Income.  
  
  
      2.  Right of First Offer.  
  
  
        a.  The City or its assignee shall have and retain, for the life  
    of the exemption granted under this chapter and for one additional  
    year thereafter, a written right of first offer under terms and  
    conditions approved by the Director consistent with this subsection.  
  
  
        b.  Such right of first offer shall be included in the contract  
    with the City required under subsection  5.73.060 of this chapter.  
  
  
        c.  This right of first offer shall require that the owner, prior  
    to placing the rental Multifamily housing on the market for sale,  
    shall inform the City in writing of the owner's intent to sell the  
    rental Multifamily housing. Following receipt of the owner's notice  
    of intent to sell, the City or the City's assignee shall have twenty  
    (20) days to present the owner with a written offer setting forth the  
    price, terms and conditions under which the City or its assignee is  
    prepared to purchase the rental Multifamily housing.  
  
  
        d.  Upon receipt of the offer, the City or its assignee shall  
    have thirty calendar days in which to enter into a real estate  
    purchase and sales agreement with the owner containing the price,  
    terms and conditions described in the offer or other price, terms and  
    conditions agreed to by the parties.  
  
  
        e.  In the event that the owner submits a notice of intent to  
    sell to the City, and either the City or its assignee does not submit  
    an offer within the permitted timeframe, or the City or its assignee  
    submits an offer and no sale to the City or its assignee occurs for  
    reasons not the fault of the owner, the owner shall not, with the  
    exception provided below, have further obligations under this  
    provision for a period of one year from the date the notice of intent  
    to sell is received by the City. Provided, however, that in the event  
    the City or its assignee makes an offer to purchase the rental  
    Multifamily housing but no sale occurs, the owner may not offer the  
    rental Multifamily housing for sale to a third party at a price and  
    under terms and conditions more favorable to the buyer than the terms  
    offered by the City for a period of one year from the date the offer  
    is received by the owner.  
  
  
      H.  Owner-occupied Multifamily housing projects - Affordability and  
    Right of First Refusal.  
  
  
      1.  Affordability.  
  
  
      a.  For owner-occupied multifamily housing, units eligible for the  
    exemption must have a sales price at initial sale after the grant of  
    exemption that does not exceed the FHA mortgage limit for Seattle, as  
    adjusted annually and must be sold to households with incomes at the  
    time of purchase at or below 80 percent of Median Income.  
  
  
      b.The contract with the City required under Section  
    5.73.060 of this chapter shall identify those units that are  
    designated to meet the affordability requirements of this subsection  
    H.  
  
  
      2.  Right of First Refusal. For those owner-occupied units  
    identified to meet the affordability requirement under this  
    subsection H, the City shall have and retain, for the life of the  
    exemption granted under this chapter, a written right of first  
    refusal under terms and conditions approved by the Director,  
    exercisable in the event the owner receives a bona fide offer to buy  
    the property from an owner whose household income exceeds the  
    affordability limits in this Section 5.73.040, giving the City or its  
    assignee the right to purchase the property on substantially the same  
    terms as such bona fide offer. Such right of first refusal shall be  
    included in the contract with the City required under Section  
    5.73.060 of this chapter.  
  
          I.  The affordability requirements contained in subsections  
    G and H apply for the period of time the multifamily housing is  
    receiving the tax exemption. If, in calculating the number of units  
    needed to comply with the affordability requirements of Subsection G,  
    the resulting number of Affordable Units is a fraction, then the  
    number of Affordable Units shall be rounded up to the next whole  
    number.  
  
          J.  The mix and configuration of housing units (e.g.,  
    studio, one-bedroom, two-bedroom, etc.) used to meet the  
    affordability requirements of subsection G shall be substantially  
    proportional to the mix and configuration of the total housing units  
    in the project; provided that all units of two or more bedrooms may  
    be combined into a single category for the purpose of compliance with  
    this provision. When the project contains more than one building, all  
    of the Affordable Units required by subsection G may not be located  
    in the same building.  
  
          K.  Affordable Units required under subsection G shall have  
    substantially the same level of interior fixtures and quality of  
    finish as market rate units in the project.  
  
          L.  For new construction of multifamily housing, the  
    applicant shall complete the design review process under Chapter  
    23.41, whether or not the multifamily housing would be subject to  
    design review under Chapter 23.41 if the owner had not applied for  
    property tax exemption under this chapter. For multifamily housing  
    not subject to mandatory design review under Section  23.41.004A, the  
    applicant shall complete administrative design review under Section  
    23.41.016.  
  
                M8.  The applicantOwner shall  
    obtain a certificate of approval, permit, or other approval under  
    SMC Chapter 25.12, Landmarks Preservation Ordinance, SMC  
    Chapter 23.66, Special Review Districts, or those provisions of  
    SMC Chapter 25.16, SMC Chapter 25.20, SMC Chapter  
    25.22, SMC Chapter 25.24, or SMC Chapter 25.28, relating  
    to Landmark or Historical Districts, if such certificate of approval,  
    permit or other approval is required under those chapters. Such  
    certificate of approval, permit or other approval shall satisfy the  
    requirement under subsection L that the applicant complete design  
    review if design review is not mandatory under Section  23.41.004A.  
  
                N9.  The mMultifamily h  
    Housing must comply with all applicable zoning requirements, land  
    use regulations, and building and housing code requirements contained  
    or incorporated in SMC Chapters 22, 23 and 25 of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code.  
  
                O10.  For the duration of the exemption  
    granted under this chapter, the mMultifamily h  
    Housing and the property on which it is located shall have no  
    violations of applicable zoning requirements, land use regulations,  
    and building and housing code requirements contained or  
    incorporated in SMC Chapters 22, 23 and 25 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code for which the Department of Planning and  
    Development DPD has issued a notice of violation that is not  
    resolved by a certificate of compliance, certificate of release, or  
    withdrawal within the time period for compliance provided in such  
    notice of violation and any extension of the time period for  
    compliance granted by the Director of the Department of Planning  
    and Development DPD.  
  
                P11.  New construction ofThe  
    mMultifamily hHousing and rehabilitation  
    improvements must be scheduled to be completed within three (3)  
    years from the date of approval of the application.  
  
          B.  In addition to the requirements in Subsection 5.73.040 A  
    above, rental projects must comply with the following affordability  
    requirements from the date of application for the Final Certificate  
    of Tax Exemption for the duration of the exemption period:  
  
                1.  A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of all the units in  
    the Project shall be Affordable Units rented to tenants whose  
    Household Annual Income is at or below eighty percent (80%) of Median  
    Income for studio units and one-bedroom units, and at or below ninety  
    (90%) percent of Median Income for two-bedroom or larger units.  
  
  
                2.  If, in calculating the number of Affordable Units,  
    the number contains a fraction, then the number of Affordable Units  
    shall be rounded up to the next whole number.  
  
  
                3.  The mix and configuration of Affordable Units (e.g.,  
    studio, one-bedroom, two-bedroom, etc.) shall be substantially  
    proportional to the mix and configuration of the total housing units  
    in the Project; provided that all units of two (2) or more bedrooms  
    may be combined into a single category for the purpose of compliance  
    with this provision.  When the Project contains more than one (1)  
    building, all of the Affordable Units required by this subsection B  
    may not be located in the same building.  
  
  
          C.  In addition to the requirements in Subsection 5.73.040 A  
    above, units eligible for tax exemption in owner-occupied Multifamily  
    Housing must comply with the following:  
  
  
                1.  Units must be sold at a sales price as established by  
    the Director and adjusted periodically to buyers with Household  
    Annual Income at the time of purchase at or below one hundred percent  
    (100%) of Median Income for studio and one-bedroom units, and at or  
    below one hundred twenty percent (120%) of Median Income for two-  
    bedroom or larger units.   
  
      2.  The contract with the City required under Section  
    5.73.060 of this chapter shall identify those units that are  
    designated to meet the affordability requirements of this subsection.  
  
    Section 5.  Section 5.73.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which section was previously amended by Ordinance 121915, is hereby  
    amended as follows:  
  
    Section 5.73.050   Application procedure - Fee.  
  
      A.  The oOwner of Multifamily hHousing  
    applying for exemption under this chapter shall submit an application  
    to the Director, on a form adopted by the City Council.  The oOwner  
    shall verify the application by oath or affirmation.  The application shall  
    contain such information as the Director may deem necessary or useful, and shall include:  
  
      1.  A brief written description of the Multifamily housing  
    units, and preliminary schematic site and floor plans of the  
    Multifamily hHousing units and the structure(s) in which  
    they are proposed to be located;  
  
      2.  A statement from the oOwner acknowledging the  
    potential tax liability when the Multifamily hHousing  
    ceases to be eligible for exemption under this chapter;  
  
      3.  Information describing how the applicant Owner will  
    comply with the affordability requirements in Subsections 5.73.040  
    G and H B and C of this chapter;  
  
      4.  In the case of rehabilitation improvements to  
    rehabilitation or conversion of an existing vacant building,  
    under Subsection 5.73.020 M verification from the Department  
    of Planning and Development DPD of non-compliance with  
    applicable building and housing codes as required under Subsection  
    5.73.0240 MA 4., and an affidavit from the  
    oOwner verifying that the residential portion of the  
    building has been vacant for a period of twelve (12)  
    months prior to filing the application;  
  
      5.  If available, a housing market study that includes comparable  
    rents in other nearby housing projects; and  
  
      6.  For rental projects, a preliminary operating budget, utilizing  
    a form provided by the Office of Housing that outlines annual  
    anticipated operating income and expenses for the first ten  
    twelve (12) years of project operation.  
  
          B.  At the time of application under this Section, the  
    applicantOwner shall pay to the City an initial application  
    fee of $3,800.00$6,000.00 if the multifamily housing  
    pProject contains only residential uses for which a tax  
    exemption is sought under this chapter, or $4,900.00  
    $6,800.00 if the multifamily housing pProject  
    contains any non-residential use.  The application fees shall  
    increase five percent (5%) each calendar year following adoption of  
    this Ordinance, unless revised by Ordinance.  
  
         C.  The Director shall notify the applicantOwner  
    within twenty-eight (28) days of the application being filed if the  
    Director determines that an application is not complete and shall  
    identify what additional information is required before the  
    application will be complete.  Within twenty-eight (28) days of  
    receiving additional information, the Director shall notify the  
    applicantOwner in writing if the Director determines that  
    the application is still not complete, and what additional  
    information is necessary.  An application shall be deemed to be  
    complete if the Director does not notify the applicantOwner in  
    writing by the deadlines in this section that the application  
    is incomplete; however, a determination of completeness does not  
    preclude the Director from requiring additional information during  
    the review process if more information is needed to evaluate the  
    application according to the criteria in this chapter.  
  
          D.  The deadline for application is as follows:  
  
                  1.  For Owners whose first building permit under  
    SMC Chapter 22 for the Project was issued between July 22, 2007 and  
    the effective date of this amendment to this chapter, the application  
    shall be submitted prior to completion of construction of the  
    Project.  Owners who meet the foregoing conditions and have  
    previously submitted an application for exemption or received a  
    Conditional Certificate of Tax Exemption may reapply for exemption  
    under this chapter prior to completion of construction of the  
    Project.  
  
                 2.  For all others, Tthe  
    application shall be submitted any time before, but no later than,  
    the date the first building permit under Seattle Municipal Code,  
    SMC Chapter 22, is issued to the Owner for the Project.  
  
          Section 6.  Section 5.73.065 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which section was adopted by Ordinance 121415, is hereby amended as  
    follows:  
  
          Section 5.73.065   Amendment of contract  
  
          A.  An applicantOwner may seek an amendment of the  
    contract approved by the City Council by submitting a request in  
    writing to the Director at any time within three (3) years of  
    the date of the Council's approval of the contract.  
  
          B.  The Director shall have authority to approve amendments to  
    the contract between the applicantOwner and the City that  
    are within the scope and intent of the initial contract approved by  
    the City Council.  Amendments that are not reasonably within the  
    scope and intent of the initial approved contract, as determined by  
    the Director, shall be submitted to the City Council for approval by  
    resolution.  
  
          C.  An applicantOwner seeking amendments to the  
    approved contract, which in the sole discretion of the Director  
    require approval by the City Council, shall pay to the City an  
    amendment application fee of $500.00$750.00.  If the City  
    Council denies the amendment, the City will retain that portion of  
    the fee attributable to its own administrative costs and refund the  
    balance, if any, to the applicantOwner.  
  
          D.  The date for expiration of the Conditional Certificate  
    shall not be extended by contract amendment unless:  
  
                1.  All the conditions for extension set forth in  
    Section 5.73.070 are met; or  
  
                2.  The conditions set forth in Section 5.73.070 A and B  
    are met and the City Council specifically approves the extension.  
  
          Section 7.  Section 5.73.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which section was adopted by Ordinance 121415, is hereby amended as  
    follows:  
  
    Section 5.73.070   Extension of cConditional c  
    Certificate.  
  
    The Conditional Certificate of Tax Exemption may be extended by  
    the Director for a period not to exceed twenty-four (24) consecutive  
    months.  The applicantOwner shall submit to the Director  
    a written request stating the grounds for the extension together with  
    a fee of $150$200.00 for the City's administrative cost  
    to process the request.  The Director may grant an extension if the  
    Director determines that:  
  
          A.  The anticipated failure to complete the new construction or  
    rRehabilitation iImprovements within the  
    required time period is due to circumstances beyond the control of  
    the oOwner; and  
  
          B.  The oOwner has been acting and could reasonably  
    be expected to continue to act in good faith and with due diligence;  
    and  
  
          C.  All the conditions of the original contract between the  
    applicantOwner and the City will be satisfied upon  
    completion of the pProject.  
  
          Section 8.  Section 5.73.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which section was adopted by Ordinance 121415, is hereby amended as  
    follows:  
  
    Section 5.73.090   Exemption - Duration - Limits.  
  
          A.  The value of new housing construction and r  
    Rehabilitation iImprovements qualifying under this  
    chapter will be exempt from ad valorem property taxation for  
    ten  
    (10) successive years. as provided in RCW 84.14.020 (1) as  
    follows:  
  
                1.  For eligible rental Multifamily Housing as  
    provided in Section 5.73.040, for twelve (12) successive years  
    beginning January 1st of the year immediately following the calendar  
    year of issuance of the Final Certificate of Tax Exemption; or  
  
                2.  For eligible units in owner-occupied Multifamily  
    Housing as provided in Section 5.73.040, for eight (8) successive  
    years beginning January 1st of the year immediately following the  
    calendar year of issuance of the Final Certificate of Tax Exemption;  
    or if at least twenty percent (20%) of all units in the owner-  
    occupied Multifamily Housing are eligible units, for twelve (12)  
    successive years beginning January 1st of the year immediately  
    following the calendar year of issuance of the Final Certificate of  
    Tax Exemption.   
  
          B.  The exemption does not apply to the value of land or to the  
    value of improvements not qualifying under this chapter, nor does the  
    exemption apply to increases in assessed valuation of land and  
    non-qualifying improvements, or to increases made by lawful order of the  
    King County Board of Equalization, the Washington State Department of  
    Revenue, State Board of Tax Appeals, or King County, to a class of  
    property throughout the county or a specific area of the county to  
    achieve uniformity of assessment or appraisal as required by law.  
    In the case of rehabilitation improvements under Section 5.73.020 K  
    1, the exemption does not include the value of improvements  
    constructed prior to submission of the completed application required  
    under this chapter.  
  
           Section 9.  Section 5.73.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which section was adopted by Ordinance 121415, is hereby amended as  
    follows:  
  
    Section 5.73.100   Annual certification.  
  
          A.  Within thirty (30) days after the first  
    anniversary of the of the date the City filed the Final Certificate  
    of Tax Exemption and each year thereafter for the tax exemption  
    period, for a period of 10 years,the oOwner  
    shall file a certification with the Director, verified upon oath or  
    affirmation, which shall contain such information as the Director may  
    deem necessary or useful, and shall include the following  
    information:  
  
                1.  A statement of occupancy and vacancy of the m  
    Multifamily hHousing units during the previous year;  
  
                2.  A certification that the mMultifamily  
    hHousing has not changed use since the date of filing of the Final  
    Certificate of Tax Exemption, and continues to be in compliance with  
    the contract with the City and requirements of this chapter;  
  
                3.  A description of any improvements or changes to the  
    Multifamily hHousing made after the filing of the Final  
    Certificate of Tax Exemption or last declaration, as  
    applicable; and  
  
                4.  Information demonstrating compliance with the  
    affordability requirements of Subsections 5.73.040 G and H.  
    B and C; and   
  
                5.  The income of each renter household at the time of  
    initial occupancy and the income of each initial purchaser of  
    owner-occupied units at the time of purchase for each of the units receiving  
    a tax exemption, if available.  
  
          B.  Failure to submit the annual declaration may result in  
    cancellation of the tax exemption.  
  
           Section 10.  Section 5.73.120 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which section was adopted by Ordinance 121415, is hereby amended as  
    follows:  
  
    Section 5.73.120   Expiration of Program.  
  
          The program established by this chapter shall expire on  
    December 31, 20092010, unless extended by the City  
    Council by ordinance.  Upon expiration, no further applications for a  
    cConditional cCertificate of tTax  
    eExemption shall be accepted.  Incomplete applications  
    shall be returned to the applicantOwner.  Pending  
    complete applications for a cConditional cCertificate  
     of Tax Exemption, extension of cConditional c  
    Certificate of Tax Exemption and fFinal  
    cCertificate of Tax Exemption shall be processed as provided in this  
    chapter.  
  
          Section 11.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force  
    thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not  
    approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after  
    presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code  
    Section 1.04.020.  
  
    Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2008.  
    _________________________________  
    President __________of the City Council  
  
    Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2008.  
    _________________________________  
    Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
    Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2008.  
    ____________________________________  
    City Clerk  
     (Seal)  
    Exhibit 1: Attachment A:  Maps 1-39  
    June 25, 2008  
    Version #4  
    ta  
  
    Map 1:  23rd &  Union-Jackson  
  
     Map #2: Bitter Lake   
  
     Map #3: Capitol Hill   
  
     Map #4: Chinatown-International District  
  
     Map #5: Columbia City   
  
     Map #6: Denny Triangle   
  
     Map #7: First Hill   
  
     Map #8: MLK @ Holly   
  
     Map #9: North Beacon Hill   
  
     Map #10: North Rainier   
  
     Map #11: Northgate   
  
     Map #12: Pioneer Square   
  
     Map #13: Rainier Beach   
  
     Map #14: South Lake Union   
  
     Map #15: South Park  
  
     Map #16: University District NW   
  
     Map #17 Delridge/Westwood-Highland Park   
  
     Map #18: 12th Avenue  
  
     Map #19: Pike/Pine   
  
     Map #20: Belltown   
  
      Map #21: Ravenna   
  
     Map #22: Ballard   
  
     Map #23: Fremont   
  
     Map #24: Lake City   
  
     Map #25: West Seattle Junction   
  
     Map #26: Admiral   
  
     Map #27: Aurora-Licton Springs   
  
     Map #28: Crown Hill   
  
     Map #29: Eastlake   
  
     Map #30: Green Lake   
  
     Map #31: Greenwood-Phinney Ridge   
  
     Map #32: Madison-Miller   
  
     Map #33: Morgan Junction   
  
     Map #34: Upper Queen Anne   
  
     Map #35: Roosevelt   
  
     Map #36: Wallingford   
  
     Map #37: Dravus   
  
     Map #38: Uptown   
  
     Map #39: Commercial Core   
    ta  
