* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)116775**   
**Ordinance Number: 123282**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning amending the Official Land Use Map, Section 23.32.016, to rezone industrially zoned land within the Ballard Hub Urban Village, and amending Sections 23.41.004, 23.40.012 and 23.50.038 of the Seattle Municipal Code to require Green Factor and Design Review for all projects in the Industrial Commercial zone within Urban Villages and Urban Centers.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 19, 2010   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: Harrell)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 29, 2010   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 28, 2010   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** January 19, 2009   
**Committee:** Built Environment   
**Sponsor:** CLARK   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-PLANNING, INDUSTRIAL-DEVELOPMENT, BALLARD, REZONES  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Clerk File 310383](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-%0D%0Abrs.exe?s1=&s2=&s3=310383&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=%0D%0ACFCF1&Sect6=HITOFF&d=CFCF&p=1&u=/~public/cfcf1.htm&r=0&f=S), [Resolution 31026](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-%0D%0Abrs.exe?s1=&s3=31026&s2=&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=R%0D%0AESNY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=RESF&p=1&u=/~public/resny.htm&r=0&f=S), [Ordinance 122610](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-%0D%0Abrs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=122610&s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Se%0D%0Act5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=/~public/cbory.htm&r=0&f=S)  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/116775.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)116775  
  
**Electronic Copy: ** [PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123282](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123282.pdf)  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning amending the Official Land  
    Use Map, Section 23.32.016, to rezone industrially zoned land within the  
    Ballard Hub Urban Village, and amending Sections 23.41.004, 23.40.012 and  
    23.50.038 of the Seattle Municipal Code  to require Green Factor and  
    Design Review for all projects in the Industrial Commercial zone within  
    Urban Villages and Urban Centers.  
  
    WHEREAS, in December, 2007, City Council adopted Resolution 31026, which  
    directed DPD to examine the boundaries of industrial-zoned land and at the  
    that time, Council adopted an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan  
    (Ordinance 122610) that discourages certain industrial zones within Urban  
    Villages; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Crown Hill/Ballard Neighborhood Plan envisions a "defined,  
    vital, accessible mixed use core with residential and commercial activity  
    in the Ballard Hub Urban Village;" and  
  
    WHEREAS the Crown Hill/Ballard Neighborhood Plan calls on the City to  
    improve the pedestrian environment along NW Market St., while retaining  
    its function as a principal arterial; NOW THEREFORE,  
  
     BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
          Section 1.  The Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, is amended to rezone certain properties shown on page 53  
    from IG2 U/65 to IC 65 as shown in Exhibit A attached to this ordinance.  
  
          Section 2. The Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, is amended to rezone certain properties shown on page 54  
    from IB U/65, MR, NC 3-65 and IG2 U/65 to IC 65 as shown in Exhibit B  
    attached to this ordinance.  
  
          Section 3. Subsection A of Section 23.41.004 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 123034, is  
    amended as follows:  
  
    23.41.004  Applicability.  
  
          A.   Design Rreview Rrequired.  
  
            1.   Design review is required for any new multifamily,   
    or commercial, or industrial development proposal that exceeds  
    one of the following thresholds in Table A for 23.41.004:  
  
**Table A for23.41.004**  
  
**Thresholds for Design Review**  
  
** Zone **  
  
**Threshold **  
  
a.  
  
Lowrise (L3, L4)  
  
8 dwelling units  
  
b.  
  
Midrise (MR)  
  
20 dwelling units  
  
c.  
  
Highrise (HR)  
  
20 dwelling units  
  
d.  
  
Neighborhood Commercial (NC1, 2, 3)  
  
4 dwelling units or 4,000 square feet of nonresidential gross floor area  
  
e.  
  
Commercial (C1, C2)  
  
((~~4~~)) Four dwelling units or 12,000 square feet of nonresidential gross floor area, when located in an urban center or urban village 1, or on a lot that abuts or is across a street or alley from a lot zoned single family, or located in the area bounded by: NE 95th St., NE 145th St., 15th Ave. NE, and Lake Washington.  
  
f.  
  
Seattle Mixed (SM)  
  
20 units or 12,000 square feet of nonresidential gross floor area  
  
g.  
  
Industrial Commercial (IC) zone (( ~~ within the South Lake Union Urban Center ~~)), within all designated urban villages and centers.  
  
12,000 square feet of nonresidential gross floor area  
  
1 Urban centers and urban villages are identified in the Seattle Comprehensive Plan.  
  
\* \* \*  
  
Section 4. Section 23.50.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 123046, is amended as follows:  
  
23.50.012 Permitted and ~~~~p~~~~Prohibited ~~~~u~~~~Uses  
  
A. All uses shall be either permitted outright, prohibited or permitted as a conditional use according to Table A for ~~~~Section~~~~ 23.50.012.  
  
\* \* \*  
  
**(** ((**~~Chart~~**))** Table A for ((~~Section~~)) 23.50.012   
 Uses in Industrial Zones **  
  
** **  
  
** **  
  
** **  
  
** PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED USES BY ZONE **  
  
** **  
  
** **  
  
** USES **  
  
** IB **  
  
** IC **  
  
** IG1 and IG2 (general) **  
  
** IG1 in the Duwamish M/I Center **  
  
** IG2 in the Duwamish M/I Center **  
  
\* \* \*  
  
E. INSTITUTIONS  
  
E.1. Adult care centers  
  
X  
  
X  
  
X  
  
X  
  
X  
  
E.2. Child care centers  
  
P  
  
P  
  
P  
  
P  
  
P  
  
E.3. Colleges  
  
EB  
  
EB  
  
EB  
  
X(6)  
  
X(6)  
  
E.4. Community centers and Family support centers  
  
EB  
  
EB  
  
EB  
  
P  
  
P  
  
E.5. Community clubs  
  
EB  
  
EB  
  
EB  
  
X  
  
P  
  
E.6. Hospitals  
  
EB  
  
EB  
  
CU(7)  
  
P  
  
P  
  
E.7. Institutes for advanced study  
  
P  
  
P  
  
P  
  
X  
  
X  
  
E.8. Libraries  
  
X  
  
X  
  
X  
  
X  
  
X  
  
E.9. Major institutions subject to the provisions of Chapter 23.69  
  
EB  
  
EB ** **  
  
EB  
  
EB  
  
EB  
  
E.10. Museums  
  
EB  
  
EB (9)  
  
EB(( ~~ (9) ~~ ))  
  
X(8)  
  
X(8)  
  
E.11. Private Clubs  
  
EB  
  
EB  
  
EB  
  
X  
  
X  
  
E.12. Religious facilities  
  
P  
  
P  
  
P  
  
P  
  
P  
  
E.13. Schools, elementary or secondary  
  
EB  
  
EB  
  
EB  
  
X  
  
X  
  
E.14. Vocational or fine arts schools  
  
P  
  
P  
  
P  
  
P  
  
P  
  
\* \* \*  
  
\* \* \* KEY  
  
CU = Administrative conditional use  
  
CCU = Council conditional use  
  
EB = Permitted only in a building existing on October 5, 1987.  
  
EB/CU = Administrative conditional use permitted only in a building existing on October 5, 1987.  
P = Permitted  
  
X = Prohibited  
  
\* \* \*  
  
\(9) On ~~~~IG2~~~~ IC zoned parcels within the Ballard Hub Urban Village and abutting Market Street, museums are allowed in new buildings or structures.  
  
\* \* \*  
  
Section 5. Section 23.50.038 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last enacted by Ordinance 113658, is amended as follows:  
  
23.50.038 Industrial Commercial--Screening and ~~~~l~~~~Landscaping~~~~ .~~~~  
  
A. Screening and ~~~~L~~~~landscaping ~~~~R~~~~r equirements for ~~~~A~~~~all ~~~~U~~~~uses.  
  
\1. All property zoned Industrial Commercial (IC) and within a designated urban village or urban center shall achieve a Green Factor score of .30 or greater, pursuant to Section 23.86.019.  
  
~~~~1.~~~~ 2. ~~~~Street Trees. a.~~~~ All uses shall provide street trees, unless it is determined by the Director to be infeasible. ~~~~b~~~~ If it is not feasible to plant street trees in the planting strip, then they shall be provided in the required ~~~~five-foot (5')~~~~ 5-foot deep landscaped area along street property lines.  
B. Treatment of blank facades.  
  
~~~~2.~~~~ 1. ~~~~Blank Facades. a.~~~~ Blank facade requirements shall apply to the area of the facade between ~~~~two feet (2') and eight feet (8')~~~~ 2 and 8 feet above the sidewalk.  
~~~~b~~~~a. Any portion of a facade that is not transparent shall be considered to be a blank facade. Clear or lightly tinted glass in windows, doors and display windows shall be considered transparent. Transparent areas shall allow views into the structure or into display windows from the outside.  
  
~~~~c~~~~b. Portions of a facade of a structure which are separated by transparent areas of at least ~~~~two feet (2')~~~~ 2 feet in width shall be considered separate facade segments for the purposes of this subsection.  
  
~~~~d~~~~c. Blank facades which are ~~~~greater than sixty feet (60') in width~~~~ 60 feet wide and greater, ~~~~which are within twenty feet (20')~~~~ and within 20 feet of the street front shall provide one ~~~~(1)~~~~ of the following:  
  
~~~~(~~~~ 1) A hedge which would achieve a height of at least ~~~~five feet~~~~ 5 feet within ~~~~three(3)~~~~ 3 years of planting and a height of at least ~~~~ten feet (10')~~~~ 10 feet at full maturity; or  
  
~~~~(~~~~ 2) Trellises and vining plants attached to the wall up to a minimum height of ~~~~ten feet (10')~~~~ 10 feet; or  
  
~~~~(~~~~ 3) A landscaped area meeting the provisions of Section 23.50.034.C, landscaped areas or berms.  
  
\* \* \*  
  
Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.  
  
Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council  
  
Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
Mayor  
  
Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
City Clerk  
  
(Seal)  
  
Exhibit A  
  
Exhibit B  
  
Andrea Petzel/Ketil Freeman  
  
Amended CB 116775 as Recommended by COBE v.2  
  
April 14, 2010  
  
Version \#2  
  
Form Last Revised on December 17, 2008 1  
  
[Exhibit A](/~ordpics/116775_exa.gif)  
  
[Exhibit B](/~ordpics/116775_exb.gif)  
  
  
