* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)116707**   
**Ordinance Number: 123172**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE relating to drainage and wastewater services of Seattle Public Utilities; amending Section 21.28.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code to adjust wastewater rates; amending Section 21.33.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code to adjust drainage rates; and amending Section 21.76.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code to adjust credits to low-income drainage and wastewater customers.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 23, 2009   
**Vote:** 7-2 (No: Harrell, McIver)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 3, 2009   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 1, 2009   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 26, 2009   
**Committee:** Budget   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN   
  
**Index Terms:** UTILITY-RATES, DRAINAGE, DRAINAGE-AND-WASTEWATER-UTILITY, LOW-INCOME, WASTE-WATER-TREATMENT  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Ordinance 122868](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=122868&s2=&s5=&Sect4=and&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBOR1&Sect6=HITOFF&d=CBOR&p=1&u=/~public/cbor1.htm&r=0&f=S)  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/116707.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)116707  
  
**Electronic Copy: ** [PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123172](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123172.pdf)  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE relating to drainage and wastewater services of Seattle  
    Public Utilities; amending Section 21.28.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code  
    to adjust wastewater rates; amending Section 21.33.030 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code to adjust drainage rates; and amending Section 21.76.040 of  
    the Seattle Municipal Code to adjust credits to low-income drainage and  
    wastewater customers.  
  
    WHEREAS, drainage and wastewater rates were last increased on January 1,  
    2009, as authorized by Ordinance 122868; and  
  
    WHEREAS, 2009 drainage and wastewater rates were approved based on a 2007  
    rate study by Seattle Public Utilities ("SPU") that proposed rates for  
    2008 and 2009; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the endorsed 2010 budget anticipated a 2009 rate study that would  
    propose drainage and wastewater rates for 2010 and beyond; and  
  
    WHEREAS, to minimize rate payer impacts during the recession, no new rates  
    were proposed for 2010, resulting in less revenue being available to  
    support drainage and wastewater activities than was assumed in the  
    endorsed budget; and  
  
    WHEREAS, expenditures in the proposed 2010 budget are lower than those in  
    the endorsed budget to reflect revenue constraints; and  
  
    WHEREAS, to achieve lower expenditures, the proposed budget reduces City  
    wastewater taxes through C.B. 116698, and cuts or reduces key capital  
    projects and operations and maintenance ("O&M") activities that support  
    Clean Water Act compliance, flood reduction, water quality improvement,  
    and infrastructure maintenance; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City Council wishes to raise 2010 drainage and wastewater  
    rates so that City wastewater taxes would continue to provide current  
    levels of support for General Subfund, and key drainage and wastewater  
    capital projects and O&M activities can be conducted, and their benefits  
    realized, in 2010; and  
  
    WHEREAS, wastewater and drainage credits for qualified low-income  
    customers, not billed directly by SPU for water or wastewater services,  
    are based on typical residential bills, and credits for such customers  
    need to be revised to reflect changes in wastewater rates;  NOW,  
    THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
          Section 1.  Subsection 21.28.040 B of the Seattle Municipal Code is  
    amended as follows:  
  
      SMC 21.28.040  Wastewater volume charge.  
  
    *  *  *  
  
    B. The wastewater volume rate shall be the sum of the treatment rate, the  
    system rate and, where applicable, the MMRD surcharge, as follows:  
  
    1. Treatment rate: The "treatment rate" shall be the rate required to pay  
    the wastewater share of "treatment cost" which is the cost of wastewater  
    treatment, interception and disposal services and any associated costs  
    required to meet Drainage and Wastewater Fund financial policies. The  
    treatment rate shall be the amount obtained when (a) the projected  
    wastewater treatment cost is divided by (b) the projected billed  
    wastewater consumption, each for the next calendar year, and the result is  
    multiplied by one hundred sixteen and seven-tenths percent (116.7%) to  
    cover the costs of taxes and low income rate assistance. The projected  
    treatment cost shall be the treatment cost anticipated for the upcoming  
    calendar year, which may include an adjustment to reflect the difference,  
    whether positive or negative, between the total expected treatment cost  
    for the current year and the total wastewater volume charge revenues  
    attributable to the treatment rate expected for the current year. The  
    treatment rate is designed to pass through cost changes driven by King  
    County and may be adjusted by ordinance at any time in response to such  
    charges.  
  
    2. System rate: The "system rate" shall be the rate required to pay the  
    cost of carrying and discharging all wastewater and any wastewater funded-  
    share of stormwater into the City sewerage system, as presently maintained  
    and operated and as may be added to, improved and extended.  
  
    3.  The wastewater volume rate shall be in accordance with the following  
    schedule:  
  
~~((Effective~~  
  
~~Effective~~  
  
Effective  
  
Effective  
  
~~Jan. 1, 2007~~  
  
~~Jan. 1, 2008~~  
  
Jan. 1, 2009  
  
Jan. 1,2010  
  
Treatment Rate  
  
~~$5.41 ~~  
  
~~$5.22 ~~  
  
$6.03  
  
$6.03  
  
System Rate  
  
~~$2.04 ~~  
  
~~$2.53 ~~  
  
$2.86  
  
$2.95  
  
Wastewater Volume Rate  
  
~~$7.45 ~~  
  
~~$7.75)) ~~  
  
$8.89  
  
$8.98  
  
\* \* \*  
  
Section 2. Subsection 21.33.030 D of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
SMC 21.33.030 Drainage service charges and drainage rates - Schedule - Exemptions.  
  
\* \* \*  
  
D. Drainage rates used in the calculation of drainage service charges shall be the sum of the treatment rate and the system rate, as follows:  
  
\1. Treatment rate: The "treatment rate" shall be the rate required to pay the drainage share of "treatment cost" which is the cost of wastewater treatment, interception and disposal service, and any associated costs necessary to meet Drainage and Wastewater Fund policies. The treatment rate shall be the amount obtained when (a) the projected drainage treatment cost for each rate category is divided by (b) the projected number of billing units in each rate category and the result is multiplied by one hundred sixteen and three-tenths percent (116.3%) to cover the costs of taxes and low income rate assistance. The projected treatment cost shall be the treatment cost anticipated for the upcoming calendar year, which may include an adjustment to reflect the difference, whether positive or negative, between the drainage share of expected total treatment cost for the current year and the total drainage service charge revenues attributable to the treatment rate expected for the current year. The treatment rate is designed to pass through cost changes driven by King County and may be adjusted by ordinance at any time in response to such charges.  
  
\2. System rate: The "system rate" shall be the rate required to fund the expense associated with operating, maintaining, and constructing the City's surface and stormwater management system, including any share of combined sanitary and stormwater system expense assigned to drainage.  
  
\3. The rate categories and the corresponding annual drainage rates are as follows:  
  
~~~~Effective January 1, 2008:~~~~  
  
~~Rate Category~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~ Treatment Rate~~  
  
~~ System Rate~~  
  
~~Total Drainage Rate~~  
  
~~Billing Unit~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~Small Residential~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~Under 3000 sq. ft.~~  
  
~~$2.00~~  
  
~~$89.38~~  
  
~~$92.38~~  
  
~~per parcel~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~3000-4999 sq. ft~~  
  
~~$2.90~~  
  
~~$129.75~~  
  
~~$132.65~~  
  
~~per parcel~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~5000-6999 sq. ft~~  
  
~~$3.92~~  
  
~~$175.35~~  
  
~~$179.27~~  
  
~~per parcel~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~7000-9999 sq. ft.~~  
  
~~$4.96~~  
  
~~$208.04~~  
  
~~$213.00~~  
  
~~per parcel~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~General Service/Large Residential~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~Undeveloped~~  
  
~~(0-15% impervious)~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~Low Impact~~  
  
~~$0.20~~  
  
~~$8.89~~  
  
~~$9.09~~  
  
~~ per 1000 Sq Ft ~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~Regular~~  
  
~~$0.32~~  
  
~~$10.89~~  
  
~~$11.21~~  
  
~~ per 1000 Sq Ft ~~  
  
~~Light~~  
  
~~(16-35% impervious)~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~Low Impact~~  
  
~~$0.37~~  
  
~~$16.62~~  
  
~~$16.99~~  
  
~~ per 1000 Sq Ft ~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~Regular~~  
  
~~$0.49~~  
  
~~$18.09~~  
  
~~$18.58~~  
  
~~ per 1000 Sq Ft ~~  
  
~~Moderate~~  
  
~~(36-65% impervious)~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~Low Impact~~  
  
~~$0.58~~  
  
~~$26.05~~  
  
~~$26.63~~  
  
~~ per 1000 Sq Ft ~~  
  
~~~~  
  
~~Regular~~  
  
~~$0.71~~  
  
~~$32.12~~  
  
~~$32.83~~  
  
~~ per 1000 Sq Ft ~~  
  
~~Heavy~~  
  
~~(66-85% impervious)~~  
  
~~$0.92~~  
  
~~$41.60~~  
  
~~$42.52~~  
  
~~ per 1000 Sq Ft ~~  
  
~~Very Heavy~~  
  
~~(86-100% impervious)~~  
  
~~$1.09~~  
  
~~$49.44~~  
  
~~$50.53~~  
  
~~ per 1000 Sq Ft)) ~~  
  
Effective January 1, 2009  
  
Rate Category  
  
Treatment Rate  
  
System Rate  
  
Total Drainage Rate  
  
Billing Unit  
  
Small Residential  
  
Under 3000 sq. ft.  
  
$4.48  
  
$98.42  
  
$102.90  
  
per parcel  
  
3000-4999 sq. ft  
  
$6.50  
  
$143.06  
  
$149.56  
  
per parcel  
  
5000-6999 sq. ft  
  
$8.78  
  
$193.39  
  
$202.17  
  
per parcel  
  
7000-9999 sq. ft.  
  
$11.13  
  
$245.25  
  
$256.38  
  
per parcel  
  
General Service/Large Residential  
  
Undeveloped  
  
(0-15% impervious)  
  
Low Impact  
  
$0.44  
  
$9.75  
  
$10.19  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Regular  
  
$0.73  
  
$16.12  
  
$16.85  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Light  
  
(16-35% impervious)  
  
Low Impact  
  
$0.82  
  
$18.16  
  
$18.98  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Regular  
  
$1.09  
  
$24.11  
  
$25.20  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Moderate  
  
(36-65% impervious)  
  
Low Impact  
  
$1.29  
  
$28.41  
  
$29.70  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Regular  
  
$1.59  
  
$35.02  
  
$36.61  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Heavy  
  
(66-85% impervious)  
  
$2.06  
  
$47.28  
  
$47.34  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Very Heavy  
  
(86-100% impervious)  
  
$2.45  
  
$53.78  
  
$56.23  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Effective January 1, 2010  
  
Rate Category  
  
Treatment Rate  
  
System Rate  
  
Total Drainage Rate  
  
Billing Unit  
  
Small Residential  
  
Under 3000 sq. ft.  
  
$4.48  
  
$100.42  
  
$104.90  
  
per parcel  
  
3000-4999 sq. ft  
  
$6.50  
  
$145.96  
  
$152.46  
  
per parcel  
  
5000-6999 sq. ft  
  
$8.78  
  
$197.31  
  
$206.09  
  
per parcel  
  
7000-9999 sq. ft.  
  
$11.13  
  
$250.22  
  
$261.35  
  
per parcel  
  
General Service/Large Residential  
  
Undeveloped  
  
(0-15% impervious)  
  
Low Impact  
  
$0.44  
  
$9.95  
  
$10.39  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Regular  
  
$0.73  
  
$16.45  
  
$17.18  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Light  
  
(16-35% impervious)  
  
Low Impact  
  
$0.82  
  
$18.53  
  
$19.35  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Regular  
  
$1.09  
  
$24.60  
  
$25.69  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Moderate  
  
(36-65% impervious)  
  
Low Impact  
  
$1.29  
  
$28.99  
  
$30.28  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Regular  
  
$1.59  
  
$35.73  
  
$37.32  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Heavy  
  
(66-85% impervious)  
  
$2.06  
  
$46.20  
  
$48.26  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
Very Heavy  
  
(86-100% impervious)  
  
$2.45  
  
$54.87  
  
$57.32  
  
per 1000 Sq Ft  
  
\* \* \*  
  
Section 3. Subsection 21.76.040 A of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:  
  
21.76.040 Low Income Rate Credits.  
  
A. Drainage, Wastewater, and Water. Persons qualified by the Human Services Department as eligible recipients of low income utility credits provided for in Section 21.76.010 (eligible recipients) shall be granted low income billing credits in the following amounts:  
  
\1. Wastewater. Eligible recipients billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities for wastewater services and residing in single-family dwellings shall receive a credit equal to 0.5 times the total current billing. Eligible recipients not billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities for wastewater services shall receive the following credits based on dwelling type:  
  
Effective Date  
  
Single-family and duplex  
  
Multifamily dwelling  
  
~~((January 1, 2007~~  
  
~~$19.37 per month~~  
  
~~$13.41 per month~~  
  
~~January 1, 2008~~  
  
~~$20.15 per month~~  
  
~~$13.95 per month))~~  
  
January 1, 2009  
  
$23.12 per month  
  
$16.01 per month  
  
January 1, 2010  
  
$23.35 per month  
  
$16.16 per month  
  
At the time of a change to the wastewater volume rate described in SMC 21.28.040, the Director of Seattle Public Utilities shall calculate new credits based on dwelling type for eligible recipients not billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities. The credit for Single-family and duplex customers shall be 0.5 times the wastewater volume rate multiplied by 5.2 CCF, which is typical single family residential sewer billed consumption. The credit for Multifamily dwelling customers shall be 0.5 times the wastewater volume rate multiplied by 3.6 CCF, which is typical multifamily sewer billed consumption.  
  
\2. Drainage. Eligible recipients residing inside The City of Seattle shall receive the following credits for drainage services based on dwelling type:  
  
~~((Effective  
 January 1, 2007 ~~  
  
~~Effective  
 January 1, 2008 ~~  
  
Effective  
 January 1, 2009  
  
Effective  
January 1, 2010  
  
Single-family  
  
~~$5.92 per month~~  
  
~~$7.47 per month~~  
  
$8.42 per month  
  
$8.59 per month  
  
Duplex  
  
~~2.96 per month ~~  
  
~~3.73 per month~~  
  
4.21 per month  
  
4.29 per month  
  
Multifamily  
  
~~0.64 per month~~  
  
~~0.80 per month))~~  
  
0.90 per month  
  
0.92 per month  
  
\* \* \*  
  
Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. If a court of competent jurisdiction, all appeals having been exhausted or all appeal periods having run, finds any provision of this ordinance to be invalid or unenforceable as to any person or circumstance, then such provision or provisions shall be null and severed from the rest of this ordinance with respect to the particular person or circumstance. The offending provision with respect to all other persons and all other circumstances, as well as all other provisions of this ordinance, shall remain valid and enforceable.  
  
Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.  
  
Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council  
  
Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
City Clerk  
  
(Seal)  
  
Maria Coe  
  
SPU DWF rates 12% tax ORD  
  
10/22/09  
  
Version \#3  
  
  
