* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)116777**   
**Ordinance Number: 123246**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the Department of Planning and Development; amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 22.900C, Fees for Land Use Review; and Chapter 22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 1, 2010   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Godden)   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 9, 2010   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 8, 2010   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** January 19, 2010   
**Committee:** Built Environment   
**Sponsor:** CLARK   
  
**Index Terms:** FEES, DEPARTMENT-OF-PLANNING-AND-DEVELOPMENT, PERMITS, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, LAND-USE-PERMITS, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/116777.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)116777  
  
**Electronic Copy: ** [PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123246](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123246.pdf)  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the  
    Department of Planning and Development; amending Seattle Municipal Code  
    Chapter 22.900C, Fees for Land Use Review; and Chapter 22.900D, Fees for  
    New and Altered Buildings and Equipment.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
          Section 1.  Effective January 1, 2010, or on the effective date of  
    this ordinance, if after January 1, 2010, Section 22.900C.010 of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance  
    122855, is amended as follows:  
    22.900C.010 Land use fees.  
          ***  
  
Table C-1 - LAND USE FEES  
  
**A. MASTER USE PERMIT, ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS, CITY COUNCIL and HEARING EXAMINER APPROVALS**  
  
**Type of Land Use Review**  
  
Minimum Fee  
  
Hourly Fee  
  
**Review Hours Covered by Minimum Fee**  
  
**For Items 1-14, unless otherwise noted**  
  
$2,500  
  
$250  
  
10--General  
 24--Low Income Housing1  
  
**1.**  
  
Administrative conditional uses (ACUs)  
 ACUs for community centers, child care centers, adult care centers, private schools, religious facilities and public and private libraries in single family and multi-family zones shall be charged a minimum fee of $1,620 for the first 20 hours. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate of $250 per hour. This exception applies when the application is for an ACU only, or an ACU combined only with a variance application.  
  
**2.**  
  
Design review, except as provided in Item 17  
  
** **  
  
/ / / / /  
  
**3.**  
  
Environmental reviews (SEPA), including projects with more than one addressed site  
 a. A 40 hour deposit is required for DSs and EISs; a 10-hour deposit is required for EIS addenda and SEIS  
 b. A flat fee of $430 shall be assessed by DPD for Determinations of Non-significance (DNSs) and Mitigated Determinations of Non-significance (MDNSs) for projects that include City of Seattle landmarks and projects located within a special review or landmark district; no hourly fees shall be assessed for these types of approvals unless DPD is the lead agency  
  
**4.**  
  
Environmentally critical areas (ECA)  
  
** **  
  
\a. Environmentally Critical Areas variance 2  
  
** **  
  
\b. ECA Exception  
  
** **  
  
\c. Environmentally Critical Areas Administrative Conditional Use  
  
**5.**  
  
Plan shoreline permit -- See Council concept approvals  
  
**6.**  
  
Shoreline permits  
  
** **  
  
\a. Substantial development permits  
  
** **  
  
\b. Variances 2 and conditional uses  
  
** **  
  
\c. Revisions (not due to required conditions)- See Item 39 of this table  
  
**7.**  
  
Short subdivisions 3  
  
**8.**  
  
Special exceptions  
  
**9.**  
  
Variances 2   
 Variances for community centers, child care centers, adult care centers, private schools, religious facilities and public and private libraries in single family and multi-family zones shall be charged a minimum fee of $1,620 for the first 20 hours. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate of $250 per hour. This exception applies when the application is for a variance only, or a variance combined only with an ACU application.  
  
**10.**  
  
Concept approvals including, but not limited to planned community/ residential development, public projects, City facilities, plan shoreline developments, other general development plans  
  
**11.**  
  
Council conditional uses  
  
**12.**  
  
Full subdivisions 4  
  
**13.**  
  
Major Institution-40 hour deposit is required for Master Plans  
  
**14.**  
  
Zoning map changes and rezones  
  
/ / / / /  
  
**B. MISCELLANEOUS REVIEWS, RESEARCH, AND OTHER SERVICES**  
  
**Type of Land Use Review**  
  
**Minimum**** Land**** Use Review Fee**  
  
**Hourly**** Land**** Use Review Fee**  
  
**Review Hours Covered by Min. Fee**  
  
**15.**  
  
Concurrency  
  
Reserved  
  
**16.**  
  
Curb cuts as a separate component  
  
** **  
  
\a. Single-family residential  
  
$67.50 each  
  
None  
  
None  
  
** **  
  
\b. Other than single- family residential  
  
$134.00 each  
  
None  
  
None  
  
**17.**  
  
Design Review for Tree Protection 5  
  
** **  
  
\a. Design review required by SMC 25.11.070 or 25.11.080 to protect exceptional tree when no other land use reviews are required  
  
$1,000  
  
$250 per hour  
  
10  
  
** **  
  
\b. Design review elected by applicant for tree protection  
  
$0  
  
$250 per hour  
  
10  
  
**18.**  
  
Early design guidance  
  
$1,500  
  
$250  
  
6  
  
**19.**  
  
Environmental review sign 6  
  
$370  
  
None  
  
None  
  
**20.**  
  
Establishing use for the record  
  
$500  
  
$250  
  
2  
  
**21.**  
  
Intake appointments for land use reviews; fee is charged for each occurrence  
  
Base Fee x 1  
  
**22.**  
  
Interpretations 7  
  
######   
  
######   
  
** **  
  
\a. Interpretations  
  
$1,500  
  
$250  
  
6  
  
** **  
  
\b. Interpretations requested after publication of Director's report  
  
$2,000  
  
$250  
  
8  
  
** **  
  
\c. Major Institution Master Plan  
  
$500  
  
$250  
  
2  
  
**23.**  
  
Letters for detailed zoning analysis or permit research  
  
$1,000  
  
$250  
  
4  
  
**24.**  
  
Type 1 MUP (boundary line, unit-lot short subdivision, sidewalk cafe, Temporary Use \> 4 weeks)  
  
$1,250  
  
$250  
  
5  
  
**25.**  
  
Major Institution - review of annual plan  
  
$1,500 per year  
  
$250  
  
6  
  
**26.**  
  
Major phased development permit - minor amendment  
  
$500  
  
$250  
  
2  
  
/ / / / /  
  
**27.**  
  
Neighborhood planning  
  
Reserved  
  
**28.**  
  
Noise survey review and variance  
  
See Table D-2 and Section 22.900F.020  
  
**29.**  
  
Notice. All notice is charged based upon type for each occurrence. 8  
  
** **  
  
\a. Land use information bulletin (GMR notice)  
  
$177.00  
  
** **  
  
\b. Posting large sign or placards  
  
$102.00  
  
** **  
  
\c. Mailed notice  
  
Base Fee x 1  
  
** **  
  
\d. Landslide prone notice  
  
Base Fee x 1  
  
** **  
  
\e. DJC decision publication  
  
$160  
  
** **  
  
\f. Neighborhood newspaper decision publication  
  
$160  
  
** **  
  
\g. Public meeting room rental  
  
$50  
  
**30.**  
  
Open space remainder lots and surplus state property  
  
$1,000  
  
$250  
  
4  
  
**31.**  
  
Pre-application conference 9  
  
$250  
  
$250  
  
1  
  
**32.**  
  
Public benefit feature review  
  
$500  
  
$250  
  
2  
  
**33.**  
  
Records research by the Public Resource Center  
  
$110  
  
$110  
  
1  
  
**34.**  
  
Rebuild Letters  
  
** **  
  
\a. With research  
  
$110  
  
** **  
  
\b. Without research  
  
$35  
  
**35.**  
  
Renewals including shoreline renewals  
  
$500  
  
$250  
  
2  
  
**36.**  
  
Revisions other than shoreline revisions  
  
$250  
  
$250  
  
1  
  
**37.**  
  
School use and school development advisory committee reviews  
  
$2,500  
  
$250  
  
10  
  
**38.**  
  
Shoreline exemptions  
  
Base Fee x 1  
  
Base Fee x 1  
  
1  
  
**39.**  
  
Shoreline permit revisions not due to required conditions  
  
$500  
  
$250  
  
2  
  
**40.**  
  
Special accommodation  
  
$500  
  
$250  
  
2  
  
**41.**  
  
Structural building overhangs and areaways as a separate component  
  
$500  
  
$250  
  
2  
  
/ / / / /  
  
**42.**  
  
Tree and Vegetation Restoration Review in ECA above minimum threshold where SEPA is not required other than for the restoration  
  
$500  
  
$250  
  
2  
  
**43.**  
  
Recording Fees, for LBA, Short Subdivision, Unit-Lot  
  
((~~$110~~)) Rate charged by King County10  
  
**44.**  
  
Street Improvement Exceptions on a Land Use permit  
  
$500  
  
$250  
  
2  
  
Notes to Table C-1: 1. For purposes of these land use fees, low-income housing is housing that both (1) satisfies the definition of "low-income housing" in SMC 23.84.024; and (2) where at least fifty percent of the total gross floor area of each structure on the site is committed to low-income housing use for at least 20 years. 2. The single variance fee shall be applicable whether the project requires one or multiple variances. 3. Includes short subdivisions in environmentally critical areas. 4. Includes unit-lot full subdivisions and full subdivisions in environmentally critical areas. 5. This fee applies when design review is initiated only for tree protection and the application has no other review under Items 1-14. 6. The minimum fee is applied to the cost to fabricate, install and remove the environmental review sign. If the sign is removed or defaced before the final City decision, the applicant will be responsible for paying the vendor contracted with the City to repair or replace the sign. 7. The fees for interpretations of SMC Chapters 25.12, 25.20, 25.22, and 25.24 shall be collected by the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods. 8. Additional notice may be given in circumstances including but not limited to the following: reinstallation of environmental review signs, reposting of the land use review or environmental signs, new component reviews added subsequent to the original notice, revised decisions, and changes to the scope of the project. 9. ~~~~This fee shall be applied towards the permit application fee if an application for a permit is made within 6 months of the date of the pre-application conference and if the project is identified by address at the time of the pre-application conference.~~~~ The pre-application conference fee covers a one hour conference. Additional pre-application review time will be charged at the hourly rate. See also Section 22.900C.010.E. 10. Recording fees will be charged the current rate as established and charged by King County at the time of document recording. \* \* \* Section 2. Effective January 1, 2010, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2010, Section 22.900D.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows: 22.900D.010 Development permit fees. \*\*\* E. Calculation of Development Fees. The development fee for a permit shall be calculated as described in this section. Table D-1 establishes the development fee index for value-based development fees. Except as specified in Section 22.900D.010 F below, Table D-2 establishes the permit fee and plan review fee, calculated as a percentage of the development fee index where determined by value. If two or more buildings are allowed under one permit, they shall be assessed fees as separate buildings under Table D-2. The individual fees shall then be added to determine the total development fee for the permit.  
  
**Table D-1 - CALCULATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT FEE INDEX**  
  
**Total Valuation**  
  
**Development Fee Index**  
  
$0.00 to $1,000.00  
  
$150.00 for the first $1,000.00 or fraction thereof  
  
$1,001.00 to   
 $50,000.00  
  
$150.00 for the first $1,000.00 plus $1.25 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof  
  
$50,001.00 to $100,000.00  
  
$762.50 for the first $50,000.00 plus $1.00 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof  
  
$100,001.00 to $250,000.00  
  
$1,262.50 for the first $100,000.00 plus $4.75 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof  
  
$250,001.00 to $500,000.00  
  
$1,975.00 for the first $250,000.00 plus $4.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof  
  
$500,001.00 to $750,000.00  
  
$3,100.00 for the first $500,000.00 plus $4.25 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof  
  
$750,001.00 to $1,000,000.00  
  
$4,162.50 for the first $750,000.00 plus $4.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof  
  
$1,000,001.00 to $2,000,000.00  
  
$5,162.50 for first $1,000,000.00 plus $3.75 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof  
  
$2,000,001.00 to $3,000,000.00  
  
$8,912.50 for first $2,000,000.00 plus $3.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof  
  
$3,000,001.00 to $4,000,000.00  
  
$12,412.50 for first $3,000,000.00 plus $3.25 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof  
  
$4,000,001.00 to $5,000,000.00  
  
$15,662.50 for first $4,000,000.00 plus $3.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof  
  
$5,000,001.00 to  
 $50,000,000.00  
  
$18,662.50 for the first $5,000,000.00 plus $2.25 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof  
  
$50,000,001.00 to  
 $100,000,000.00  
  
$119,912.50 for the first $50,000,000.00 plus $1.75 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof  
  
$100,000,001.00 to  
 $200,000,000.00  
  
$207,412.50 for the first $100,000,000.00 plus $1.25 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof  
  
$200,000,001.00 and up  
  
$332,412.50 for the first $200,000,000.00 plus $0.75 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof  
  
Table D-2 - CALCULATION OF DEVELOPMENT FEES DETERMINED BY VALUE  
  
** **  
  
**Percent of Development Fee Index (DFI) Calculated from Project Value as Specified in Table D-1****1**** **  
  
**Type of Development**  
  
**Permit Fee**  
  
**Plan Review Fee**  
  
\1. Building, with or without mechanical, with or without use2((~~,3~~))  
  
100% of DFI  
  
100% of DFI  
  
\2. STFI (Subject to field inspection - building and/or mechanical ((~~without plan review~~)) )  
  
100% of DFI  
  
((~~none~~)) 40% of DFI3  
  
\3. Reserved  
  
Reserved  
  
Reserved  
  
\4. Mechanical permit separate from building permit((~~3~~)) (see also Section 22.900D.090)  
  
100% of DFI  
  
100% of DFI  
  
\5. Blanket permit review fees:  
  
\a. Initial tenant alterations within 3 years of first tenant permit within a building where the area of work is more than 50,000 square feet  
  
$2.20 per 100 square feet1  
  
$2.55 per 100 square feet1  
  
\b. Initial tenant alterations after 3 years of first tenant permit, and other tenant alterations  
  
100% of DFI  
  
40% of DFI  
  
\6. Initial tenant alterations within 18 months of first tenant permit (nonblanket permit initial tenant improvements to shell and core)4  
  
25% of DFI based on new building value of shell and core  
  
25% of DFI based on new building value of shell and core  
  
\7. Standard plans:  
  
\a. Establishment of standard plan, including temporary structures. (For swimming pools, see Item 15 below)  
  
100% of DFI  
  
200% of DFI  
  
\b. Establishment of already permitted plan as standard plan  
  
100% of DFI  
  
100% of DFI  
  
\c. Subsequent reviews of standard plan, other than temporary structures  
  
100% of DFI  
  
40% of DFI  
  
\d. Subsequent reviews of standard plans for temporary structures  
  
See Item 16 below  
  
See Item 16 below  
  
/ / / / /  
  
\8. Factory-built housing and commercial structures  
  
Base Fee x 1; base fee x 1 for each module up to 10 modules for multistory multifamily structures  
  
Base Fee x 1  
  
**Special Development Fees**  
  
**Type of Development **  
  
**Permit Fee**  
  
**Plan Review Fee**  
  
\9. Establishing use for the record:  
  
\a. Applications with no construction  
  
Base Fee x 1.5  
  
None  
  
\b. Applications with construction  
  
100% of DFI  
  
100% of DFI  
  
\10. Noise survey reviews  
  
None  
  
DPD hourly rate; 30-minute minimum  
  
\11. Parking facilities  
  
\a. Outside a building  
  
See Sec. 22.900D.060  
  
\b. Within or on a building  
  
See Sec. 22.900D.010 C  
  
\12. Renewal fees  
  
\a. Development permits and separate mechanical permits where original plans will be changed  
  
DPD hourly rate  
  
DPD hourly rate  
  
\b. Development permits other than separate mechanical where no change will be made to original plans  
  
Base fee x 1.5  
  
\c. Separate mechanical where no change will be made to original plans  
  
Base fee x 1  
  
\13. Single-family seismic retrofit  
  
Base fee x 1  
  
None  
  
/ / / / /  
  
\14. Special inspection  
  
Base fee x 1  
  
\15. Swimming pools5  
  
\a. Unenclosed pools accessory to Group R-3 occupancy  
  
Base fee x 4  
  
\b. Unenclosed pools accessory to occupancies other than Group R-3  
  
Base fee x 6  
  
\c. Principal use unenclosed pools  
  
Base fee x 6  
  
\d. Future construction of an unenclosed swimming pool  
  
Base fee x 1  
  
\e. Initial approval of standard plan for swimming pool accessory to Group R-3 occupancy  
  
Base fee x 5  
  
\f. Subsequent review of application based on approved swimming pool standard plan  
  
Base fee x 1.5  
  
\16. Temporary structures, such as commercial coaches; renewal of permits for temporary structures6  
  
Base fee x 2 per structure  
  
\17. Temporary tents, off-site construction offices and similar facilities  
  
Base fee x 2 plus $500 refundable deposit per site7  
  
\18. Temporary use permits  
  
\a. For 4 weeks or less8  
  
Base fee x 1.5  
  
\b. For more than 4 weeks8  
  
Base fee x 2  
  
\19. Phased Permits  
  
\a. Value <$5,000,000 in value.  
  
Base fee x 1  
  
\b. Value \>$5,000,000 in value  
  
Base fee x 2  
  
\20. ECA Small Project Waiver on a building permit  
  
None  
  
DPD hourly rate; ¼ hour minimum  
  
\21. Street Improvement Exceptions on a building permit  
  
Base fee x 2  
  
DPD hourly rate; 2 hour minimum  
  
Notes to Table D-2: 1. The minimum permit fee or plan review fee for value-based fees is $150.00. 2. The minimum fee for accessory dwelling units is $150.00 for Permit fee and $150.00 for Plan Review fee. 3. The minimum plan review fee for Subject To Field Investigation (STFI) value-based plan review is $60.00. ~~~~3~~~~ 4. This fee is applicable only to those initial tenants that reflect the use and occupancy established in the shell and core permit. The value used shall be the new construction value used in calculating value for the core and shell permit. ~~~~4~~~~ 5. When a swimming pool is located within an enclosed building and is included in the building plans for that building, a separate fee shall not be charged for the swimming pool. The swimming pool area will be considered as floor area of the principal occupancy of the building. ~~~~5~~~~ 6. This fee shall not apply to any on-site, temporary construction office where a valid building permit is in force. ~~~~6~~~~ 7. All costs to the City for site cleanup shall be deducted from the deposit before the deposit is refunded. ~~~~7~~~~ 8. Master use permit fees for such temporary uses shall be charged according to Table C-1.  
\* \* \*  
  
Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020. Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council  
  
Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
, Mayor  
  
Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ City Clerk (Seal) Jeffrey S. Davis/jd DPD 2010 Fee ORD November 20, 2009 Version \#2b  
  
  
