* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)116997**   
**Ordinance Number: 123442**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE adopting a budget, including a capital improvement program and position modifications, for the City of Seattle for 2011; creating a barrier fund; creating positions exempt from civil service; all by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.  
  
**Status:** Passed   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 22, 2010   
**Vote:** 9-0   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 1, 2010   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 30, 2010   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)   
  
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 18, 2010   
**Committee:** Budget   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN   
  
**Index Terms:** BUDGET, CAPITAL-IMPROVEMENT-PROGRAM  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Clerk File 311386](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=311386&s2=&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CFCF1&Sect6=HITOFF&d=CFCF&p=1&u=/~public/cfcf1.htm&r=1&f=G), [Clerk File 311387](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=311387&s2=&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CFCF1&Sect6=HITOFF&d=CFCF&p=1&u=/~public/cfcf1.htm&r=1&f=G)  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/116997.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)116997  
  
**Electronic Copy: ** [PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123442](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123442.pdf)  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    AN ORDINANCE adopting a budget, including a capital  
    improvement program and position modifications, for the  
    City of Seattle for 2011; creating a barrier fund;  
    creating positions exempt from civil service; all by a  
    two-thirds vote of the City Council.  
  
    WHEREAS, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.030, the Mayor  
    submitted the proposed budget for 2011 to the City  
    Council; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the Mayor submitted a list of proposed position  
    modifications as part of the 2011 Proposed Budget; and  
  
    WHEREAS, by Resolution 24964, the City Council adopted the  
    concept of implementing the City's Capital Improvement  
    Program through appropriations in budgets adopted  
    annually to the greatest extent feasible; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the proposed budget for 2011 includes certain  
    appropriations for capital programs that are described in  
    the 2011-2016 Proposed Capital Improvement Program; and  
  
    WHEREAS, the City's 2011-2016 Capital Improvement Program, in  
    conjunction with the Capital Facilities, Utility and  
    Transportation Elements of the Comprehensive Plan, is in  
    accordance with the State Growth Management Act; NOW,  
    THEREFORE,  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
          Section 1.  (a)  In accordance with RCW 35.32A.050, the  
    City Council has modified the proposed budget submitted by the  
    Mayor.  
  
          (b) The expenditure allowances for the budget control  
    levels in Attachment A to this ordinance, as restricted by the  
    budget provisos included in Clerk File (C.F.) 311072, are  
    adopted and constitute the appropriations for the City's  
    annual budget for 2011.  
  
          (c) The expenditure allowance for each budget control  
    level in Attachment A may be used only for the purpose listed  
    in Attachment A for that budget control level, unless  
    transferred pursuant to Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) Chapter  
    5.08.  Each budget control level listed in Attachment A is a  
    "budget item" as that term is used in SMC Section 5.08.020.  
    Use of any amount of any appropriation restricted by one or  
    more of the provisos in C.F. 311072 for any other purpose than  
    that stated, or for any purpose expressly excluded, or in  
    violation of any condition specified by proviso, whether by  
    transfer pursuant to SMC Section 5.08.020 or by any other  
    means, is prohibited.  
  
          (d) Unspent funds for the Executive Department Office of  
    Housing's Low-Income Housing Fund 16400 Budget Control Level  
    appropriated by Section 1(b) shall carry forward to subsequent  
    fiscal years until they are exhausted or abandoned by  
    ordinance.  
  
          (e) Unspent funds for the Pike Place Market Renovation  
    Budget Control Level appropriated by Section 1(b) shall carry  
    forward to subsequent fiscal years until they are exhausted or  
    abandoned by ordinance.  
  
          (f) The revenue estimates for 2011 contained in the  
    Mayor's 2011 Proposed Budget, filed in C.F. 311070, as  
    modified by the changes of the City Council in C.F. 311072,  
    are adopted.  
  
          Section 2.  The 2011-2016 Proposed Capital Improvement  
    Program submitted by the Mayor, filed in C.F. 311071, as  
    modified by the changes of the City Council in C.F. 311072, is  
    adopted as the City's six-year Capital Improvement Program  
    ("CIP").  
  
          Section 3.  (a)  The officer and employee position  
    modifications in Attachment B, including the creation of some  
    positions exempt from civil service, are adopted effective  
    January 4, 2011.  
  
           (b)  The City by enacting Ordinance 123308 established a  
    position list that became effective as of January 1, 2010.  
    Subsection 3(a) of this ordinance modifies that list.  It is  
    anticipated that the Personnel Department will submit a  
    proposed list of the City's regular positions for each  
    department or office as of January 4, 2011, to the City  
    Council for possible action in early 2011.  The proposed list  
    should reflect (i) the modifications made in Subsection 3(a)  
    of this ordinance that take effect on January 4, 2011; (ii)  
    the reclassifications of regular positions made by the  
    Personnel Director from January 1, 2010, through January 3,  
    2011; and (iii) the creation, modification, or abrogation of  
    regular positions by ordinances effective from January 1,  
    2010, through January 3, 2011.  
  
         Section 4.  (a)  Subject to the conditions in  Section 1  
    above, the appropriation of money in the budget adopted by  
    this ordinance, for a budget control level that includes a  
    program or project assigned a project identification number in  
    the 2011-2016 Adopted CIP, constitutes authority for the  
    designated City department, commission, or office (after  
    compliance with the State Environmental Policy Act) to acquire  
    personal property; obtain options to acquire real property;  
    negotiate to acquire right-of-way and other real property  
    interests; prepare plans and designs; demolish, construct,  
    make improvements; and obtain any ancillary services,  
    including, without limitation, planning, engineering, design,  
    appraisal, escrow, title insurance, construction, inspection,  
    environmental audits, and remediation appraisals or other  
    reviews; all in order to carry out the project or program  
    substantially as described in the 2011-2016 Adopted CIP.  Each  
    department may obtain the authorized services or property  
    using City staff or by contract as authorized in Section 6.  
    Where projects or programs are identified in the 2011-2016  
    Adopted CIP to be carried out by other entities wholly or in  
    part with City funds, the appropriation constitutes authority  
    to provide such funds to such other entities for such  
    purposes, subject to applicable laws and ordinances.  
  
          (b) None of the appropriations in the 2011 Adopted Budget  
    may be spent on capital projects or programs unless the  
    projects or programs are specifically identified and assigned  
    a project identification number in the 2011-2016 Adopted CIP  
    or are added to the 2011-2016 Adopted CIP by a future amending  
    ordinance.  This prohibition includes, but is not limited to,  
    spending on the planning, acquisition, construction,  
    reconstruction, repair, replacement, rehabilitation, or  
    improvement of streets, roads, highways, sidewalks, street and  
    road lighting systems, traffic signals, bridges, domestic  
    water systems, storm and sanitary sewer systems, parks,  
    recreational facilities, law enforcement facilities, fire  
    protection facilities, trails, libraries, administrative or  
    judicial facilities, river or waterway flood control projects,  
    or power transmission or generation facilities.  
  
          (c) Without future Council authorization by ordinance,  
    expenditures in 2011 on any project or program identified and  
    assigned a project identification number in the 2011-2016  
    Adopted CIP for Seattle City Light, Seattle Public Utilities,  
    or the Seattle Department of Transportation, other than  
    expenditures pursuant to unspent capital appropriations  
    carried forward from 2010 into 2011 in accordance with RCW  
    35.32A.080 and allocated to the same project or program, shall  
    not exceed by more than $1,000,000 the amount shown as the  
    Appropriations Total in the 2011 column for that project or  
    program.  The City Budget Office shall certify to the Chair of  
    the City Council Finance and Budget Committee a list of those  
    unspent capital appropriations not subject to the expenditure  
    restriction imposed by this subsection by May 1, 2011. The  
    list shall include the project identification number and the  
    dollar amount by project or program not subject to the  
    expenditure restriction, at minimum.  The Chair of the City  
    Council Finance and Budget Committee shall then file this  
    certification with the City Clerk.  
  
          (d) Moneys appropriated from funds, subfunds, accounts,  
    and subaccounts in which are deposited the proceeds derived  
    from the issuance of bonded obligations shall be expended only  
    in accordance with the terms, conditions, and restrictions of  
    ordinances authorizing such obligations and establishing the  
    respective funds.  
  
          (e) The 2011-2016 Adopted CIP is part of the 2011 Adopted  
    Budget and identifies, among other projects, those capital  
    projects funded wholly or in part from the proceeds of the  
    taxes authorized in RCW 82.46.010 and/or RCW 82.46.035, and/or  
    from the proceeds of bonds, for the repayment of which tax  
    revenues under RCW 82.46.010 have been pledged.  Such taxes  
    are intended to be in addition to other funds that may be  
    reasonably available for such capital projects.  
  
          (f) The portions of the 2011-2016 Adopted CIP pertaining  
    to Seattle City Light and Seattle Public Utilities, as those  
    portions of the 2011-2016 Adopted CIP may be amended from time  
    to time, are adopted as systems or plans of additions to, and  
    betterments and extensions of, the facilities, physical  
    plants, or systems of Seattle City Light and Seattle Public  
    Utilities, respectively.  
  
          (g) The Director of the Department of Finance and  
    Administrative Services and the City's Director of Finance are  
    authorized to draw and pay the necessary warrants or checks  
    and to make any necessary transfers among funds and accounts.  
  
          (h) Except as limited by this Section or by Section 1  
    above or by any other ordinance, the funds appropriated in the  
    2011 Adopted Budget shall be subject to transfer for use with  
    other projects as provided in SMC Chapter 5.08.  
  
          Section 5.  The Mayor or, at the Mayor's request, the  
    head of the department that is designated to carry out a  
    project for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, is  
    authorized to submit applications as may be deemed appropriate  
    to the United States of America, or any of its departments,  
    and the State of Washington, or any of its departments, for  
    financial assistance in carrying out the authorized projects  
    included in the 2011-2016 Adopted CIP; to make for and on  
    behalf of the City all assurances, promises, representations,  
    and consent to suit, and/or covenants to comply with any  
    applicable regulations of the United States relating to  
    implementation of the projects; to act in connection with the  
    applications as the authorized representative of the City; to  
    provide additional information as may be required; and to  
    prepare plans for implementation of terms and conditions as  
    may accompany financial assistance, provided that the  
    submission of an application shall not result in the making of  
    a contract, in incurring of any indebtedness, or in the  
    acceptance of moneys imposing any duties or obligations upon  
    the City except as shall be authorized by this or other  
    ordinance.  
  
          Section 6.  The Director of Transportation, the  
    Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, the Director of the  
    Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs, the Superintendent of  
    City Light, the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, the  
    Director of the Department of Finance and Administrative  
    Services, the City Librarian, the Chief Technology Officer,  
    and the Director of the Seattle Center Department are  
    authorized to negotiate for and enter into non-public works  
    contracts, within their appropriation authority, to obtain  
    property and services authorized in Section 4 to carry out  
    those capital projects and programs included in the 2011-2016  
    Adopted CIP and assigned to their respective departments or  
    offices.  
  
          Section 7.  Effective January 1, 2011, a new barrier fund  
    entitled the Finance and Administrative Services Fund is  
    created in the City Treasury.  
  
          (a)     The purpose of the Finance and Administrative  
    Services Fund is to account for revenues, expenditures, assets  
    and liabilities associated with the operations of the  
    Department of Finance and Administrative Services' operations.  
  
          (b)     The Finance and Administrative Services Fund  
    shall receive authorized associated revenues including, but  
    not limited to: City levied fees and taxes; interfund  
    transfers; revenues from federal, state, county, or other  
    grants or transfers; private funding, donations or gifts;  
    revenues from private businesses or individuals; and other  
    monies as authorized by ordinance.  
  
          (c)     The Director of Finance and Administrative  
    Services is responsible for administering the Finance and  
    Administrative Services Fund.  The Director of Finance is  
    authorized to create other Subfunds, Accounts or Subaccounts  
    as may be needed to implement the Fund's purpose and intent.  
    Investment earnings attributable to the subfunds within the  
    Finance and Administrative Services Fund shall be deposited  
    into the appropriate subfunds.  
  
          (d) All assets and liabilities in the Fleets and  
    Facilities Fund shall transfer to the Finance and  
    Administrative Services Fund.  
  
          (e) All assets and liabilities in the General Subfund  
    associated with the Department of Executive Administration  
    shall transfer to the Finance and Administrative Services  
    Fund.  
  
          (f) Portions of assets and liabilities in the General  
    Subfund associated with the Department of Neighborhoods, as  
    determined by the Director of Finance, shall transfer to the  
    Finance and Administrative Services Fund.  
  
          (g) The Fleets and Facilities Fund is abolished,  
    effective January 1, 2011.  
  
          Section 8.  The Mayor and the City Council find that the  
    General Fund's 2011 contribution to the Park and Recreation  
    Fund exceeds the requirements established in Article XI,  
    Section 3 of the City Charter.  
  
          Section 9.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared  
    to be separate and severable.  If one or more of the  
    provisions of this ordinance shall be declared by any court of  
    competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, the provision  
    shall be severed from the rest of the ordinance and all other  
    provisions shall remain valid.  
  
          Section 10.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in  
    force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the  
    Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within  
    ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as  
    provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.  
  
          Passed by a two-thirds vote of all the members of the  
    City Council the _____ day of ________________, 2010, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage  
    this _____ day of ________________, 2010.  
  
    _________________________________  
  
                                  President __________of the City  
    Council  
  
         Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________,  
    2010.  
  
    _________________________________  
  
                                  Michael McGinn, Mayor  
  
         Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________,  
    2010.  
  
    ____________________________________  
  
                   City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Julie Johnson / Martha Lester  
    CBO 2011 Budget Adoption ORD  
    October 7, 2010  
    Version #3  
  
    Attachment A: Expenditure Allowances by Budget Control  
    Level  
  
    Attachment B: Position Modifications for the 2011 Budget  
  
    Attachment A: Expenditure Allowance by Budget Control Level  
    Julie Johnson/Bob Morgan  
    CBO 2011-2012 Budget Adoption ATT A v4  
    November 20, 2010, Version #4  
  
style='width:698.25pt'\>  
  
**Fund**  
  
**Department**  
  
**BCL Code**  
  
**BCL Name**  
  
**BCL Purpose**  
  
**Adopted 2011 Expenditure **  
  
Allowance  
  
General Subfund  
  
Office of City Auditor  
  
VG000  
  
Office of City Auditor  
  
The purpose of the Office of City Auditor is to provide unbiased analyses,  
  
accurate information, and objective recommendations to assist the City in  
  
using public resources equitably, efficiently, and effectively in delivering  
  
services to Seattle residents.  
  
$1,071,896  
  
General Subfund  
  
City Budget Office  
  
CZ000  
  
City Budget Office  
  
The purpose of the City Budget Office Budget Control Level is to develop  
  
and monitor the budget, carry out budget-related functions, and oversee  
  
fiscal policy and financial planning activities.  
  
$4,011,539  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
VJ100  
  
Jail Services  
  
The purpose of the Jail Services Budget Control Level is to provide for  
  
the booking, housing, transporting, and guarding of City inmates. The jail  
  
population, for which the City pays, are adults charged with or convicted of  
  
misdemeanor crimes alleged to have been committed within the Seattle city  
  
limits.  
  
$18,331,746  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
VJ500  
  
Indigent Defense Services  
  
The purpose of the Indigent Defense Services Budget Control Level is to  
  
secure legal defense services, as required by state law, for indigent people  
  
facing criminal charges in Seattle Municipal Court.  
  
$6,043,667  
  
General Subfund  
  
Civil Service Commission  
  
V1C00  
  
Civil Service Commission  
  
The purpose of the Civil Service Commission Budget Control Level is  
  
threefold: 1) to provide employees and departments with a quasi-judicial  
  
process wherein they can appeal disciplinary actions and alleged violations  
  
of the City Charter, personnel code, or other personnel rules; 2) to submit  
  
legislation and recommendations to the Mayor and City Council intended to  
  
improve the City's personnel system; and 3) to investigate allegations of  
  
political patronage so the City's hiring process conforms to the merit system  
  
set forth in the City Charter.  
  
$233,080  
  
General Subfund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
I3100  
  
Director's Office  
  
The purpose of the Director's Office Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
executive leadership, communications, and operational support for the entire  
  
department. The Director's Office also includes Historic Preservation, which  
  
provides technical assistance, outreach, and education to the general public,  
  
owners of historic properties, government agencies, and elected officials to  
  
identify, protect, rehabilitate, and re-use historic properties.  
  
$1,097,650  
  
General Subfund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
I3200  
  
Customer Service and Operations  
  
The purpose of the Customer Service and Operations Budget Control Level is  
  
to provide information, referral services, and coordination of City services  
  
to community members, and to provide financial, human resources, facilities,  
  
office management, and information technology services to the Department's  
  
employees to serve customers efficiently and effectively.  
  
$3,394,747  
  
General Subfund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
I3300  
  
Community Building  
  
The purpose of the Community Building Budget Control Level is to deliver  
  
technical assistance, support services, and programs in neighborhoods to  
  
strengthen local communities, engage residents in neighborhood improvement,  
  
leverage resources, and complete neighborhood-initiated projects.  
  
$2,569,637  
  
General Subfund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
I4100  
  
Youth Violence Prevention  
  
The purpose of the Youth Violence Prevention Budget Control Level is to  
  
reduce juvenile violent crimes.  
  
$3,104,955  
  
General Subfund  
  
Ethics and Elections Commission  
  
V1T00  
  
Ethics and Elections  
  
The purpose of the Ethics and Elections Budget Control Level is threefold:  
  
\1) to audit, investigate, and conduct hearings regarding non-compliance with,  
  
or violations of, Commission-administered ordinances; 2) to advise all City  
  
officials and employees of their obligations under Commission-administered  
  
ordinances; and 3) to publish and broadly distribute information about the  
  
City's ethical standards, City election campaigns, campaign financial  
  
disclosure statements, and lobbyist disclosure statements.  
  
$686,573  
  
General Subfund  
  
Finance General  
  
2QA00  
  
Appropriation to General Fund Subfunds and Special Funds  
  
The purpose of the Appropriation to General Fund Subfunds and Special  
  
Funds Budget Control Level is to appropriate General Subfund resources,  
  
several of which are based upon the performance of certain City revenues, to  
  
bond redemption or special purpose funds. These appropriations are  
  
implemented as operating transfers to the funds, subfunds, or accounts they  
  
support.  
  
$47,653,918  
  
General Subfund  
  
Finance General  
  
2QD00  
  
Reserves  
  
The purpose of the Reserves Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
appropriation authority to those programs for which there is no single  
  
appropriate managing department, or for which there is Council and/or Mayor  
  
desire for additional budget oversight.  
  
$28,899,542  
  
General Subfund  
  
Finance General  
  
2QE00  
  
Support to Operating Funds  
  
The purpose of the Support to Operating Funds Budget Control Level is to  
  
appropriate General Subfund resources to support the operating costs of line  
  
departments that have their own operating funds. These appropriations are  
  
implemented as operating transfers to the funds or subfunds they support.  
  
$284,759,121  
  
General Subfund  
  
Office of Hearing Examiner  
  
V1X00  
  
Office of Hearing Examiner  
  
The purpose of the Office of Hearing Examiner Budget Control Level is to  
  
conduct fair and impartial hearings in all subject areas where the Seattle  
  
Municipal Code grants authority to do so (there are currently more than 50  
  
subject areas) and to issue decisions and recommendations consistent with  
  
applicable ordinances.  
  
$570,567  
  
General Subfund  
  
Law  
  
J1100  
  
Administration  
  
The purpose of the Administration Budget Control Level is to collectively  
  
recruit, train, evaluate, and retain qualified personnel who reflect the  
  
community and can effectively complete their assigned tasks, operate and  
  
maintain computer systems that enable department personnel to effectively use  
  
work-enhancing technology, and promote the financial integrity of the  
  
Department.  
  
$1,658,041  
  
General Subfund  
  
Law Department  
  
J1300  
  
Civil  
  
The purpose of the Civil Budget Control Level is to provide legal advice  
  
to the City's policy-makers, and to defend and represent the City, its  
  
employees, and officials before a variety of county, state, and federal  
  
courts and administrative bodies.  
  
$10,358,879  
  
General Subfund  
  
Law Department  
  
J1500  
  
Criminal  
  
The purpose of the Criminal Budget Control Level includes prosecuting  
  
ordinance violations and misdemeanor crimes, maintaining case information and  
  
preparing effective case files for the court appearances of prosecuting  
  
attorneys, and assisting and advocating for victims of domestic violence  
  
throughout the court process.  
  
$6,352,029  
  
General Subfund  
  
Legislative Department  
  
G1100  
  
Legislative Department  
  
The purpose of the Legislative Department Budget Control Level is to set  
  
policy, enact City laws, approve the City's budget, provide oversight of City  
  
departments, and conduct operational and administrative activities in an  
  
efficient and effective manner to support the mission of the Department.  
  
$11,542,411  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
X1A00  
  
Office of the Mayor  
  
The purpose of the Mayor's Office Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
honest, accessible leadership to residents, employees, and regional neighbors  
  
of the City of Seattle that is clear and responsible in an environment that  
  
encourages ideas, civic discourse, and inclusion for the entirety of the  
  
City's diverse population, creating an even better place to live, learn,  
  
work, and play.  
  
$3,455,957  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
X1R00  
  
Civil Rights  
  
The purpose of the Civil Rights Budget Control Level is to work toward  
  
eliminating discrimination in employment, housing, public accommodations,  
  
contracting, and lending in Seattle through enforcement, and policy and  
  
outreach activities. The Office seeks to encourage and promote equal access  
  
and opportunity, diverse participation, and social and economic equity. In  
  
addition, the Office is responsible for directing the Race & Social  
  
Justice Initiative, leading other City departments to design and implement  
  
programs which eliminate institutionalized racism.  
  
$2,226,035  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
X1D00  
  
Office of Economic Development  
  
The purpose of the Office of Economic Development Budget Control Level is  
  
to provide vital services to individual businesses and economic development  
  
leadership to support a strong local economy, thriving neighborhood business  
  
districts, and broadly-shared prosperity.  
  
$6,338,820  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
X1G00  
  
Intergovernmental Relations  
  
The purpose of the Intergovernmental Relations Budget Control Level is to  
  
promote and protect the City's federal, state, regional, and international  
  
interests by providing strategic advice, representation, and advocacy to, and  
  
on behalf of, City elected officials on a variety of issues. These include:  
  
federal and state executive and legislative actions; issues and events relating  
  
to the City's international and tribal relations; and jurisdictional issues  
  
involving King County, suburban cities, and regional governmental  
  
organizations.  
  
$2,015,996  
  
General Subfund  
  
Executive  
  
X1000  
  
Office of Sustainability and Environment  
  
The purpose of the Office of Sustainability and Environment Budget Control  
  
Level is to develop, communicate, implement, and lead the City's Climate  
  
Protection and Green Seattle initiatives.  
  
$1,266,923  
  
General Subfund  
  
Personnel Department  
  
N1000  
  
Employment and Training  
  
The purpose of the Employment and Training Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide staffing services, employee-development opportunities, mediation, and  
  
technical assistance to all City departments so the City can meet its hiring  
  
needs efficiently, maintain legal compliance, and help organizations and  
  
employees accomplish the City's work in a productive and cost-effective  
  
manner. This Budget Control Level includes the Police and Fire Exams,  
  
Employment, Supported Employment, Equal Employment Opportunity, Alternative  
  
Dispute Resolution, and Career Quest units.  
  
$2,913,420  
  
General Subfund  
  
Personnel Department  
  
N2000  
  
Employee Health Services  
  
The purpose of the Employee Health Services Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide quality, cost-effective employee health care and other benefits,  
  
workers' compensation benefits, and safety services to maintain and promote  
  
employee health and productivity, and to provide a competitive non-cash  
  
compensation package. This program also includes administration of the  
  
Seattle Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust.  
  
$2,692,054  
  
General Subfund  
  
Personnel Department  
  
N3000  
  
Citywide Personnel Services  
  
The purpose of the Citywide Personnel Services Budget Control Level is to  
  
establish Citywide personnel rules and provide human resources systems,  
  
policy advice, information management, finance and accounting services,  
  
contingent work force oversight, and expert assistance to departments,  
  
policymakers, and employees so the City can accomplish its business goals in  
  
a cost-effective manner. This program includes Policy Development,  
  
Information Management, Finance and Accounting, Temporary Employment  
  
Services, and other internal support services.  
  
$1,848,768  
  
General Subfund  
  
Personnel Department  
  
N4000  
  
City/Union Relations and Class/Comp Services  
  
The purpose of the City/Union Relations and Classification/Compensation  
  
Services Budget Control Level is to support the City's efforts to fairly  
  
manage and compensate its diverse work force. City/Union Relations staff  
  
provide technical and professional labor-relations services to policymakers  
  
and management staff of all City departments. The Class/Comp staff develop  
  
personnel rules, pay programs, perform compensation analysis, and provide  
  
classification services and organizational consultation to all City departments.  
  
$4,095,057  
  
General Subfund  
  
Public Safety Civil Service Commission  
  
V1S00  
  
Public Safety Civil Service Commission  
  
The mission and purpose of the Public Safety Civil Service Commission is  
  
to implement, administer, and direct a civil service system for sworn  
  
personnel of the Seattle Fire and Police Departments.  
  
$148,986  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
F1000  
  
Administration  
  
The purpose of the Administration Budget Control Level is to allocate and  
  
manage available resources, provide management information, and provide  
  
dispatch and communication services needed to achieve the Department's  
  
mission.  
  
$14,403,693  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
F2000  
  
Risk Management  
  
The purpose of the Risk Management Budget Control Level is to recruit and  
  
train uniformed staff, reduce injuries by identifying and changing practices  
  
that place firefighters at greater risk, and providing services to enhance  
  
firefighter health and wellness.  
  
$2,666,814  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
F3000  
  
Operations  
  
The purpose of the Operations Budget Control Level is to provide emergency  
  
and disaster response capabilities for fire suppression, emergency medical  
  
needs, hazardous materials, weapons of mass destruction, and search and  
  
rescue.  
  
$133,785,398  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
F5000  
  
Fire Prevention  
  
The purpose of the Fire Prevention Budget Control Level is to provide Fire  
  
Code enforcement to help prevent injury and loss from fire and other hazards.  
  
$6,465,466  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
F6000  
  
Grants & Reimbursables  
  
The purpose of the Grants & Reimbursables Budget Control Level (BCL)  
  
is to improve financial management of grant and reimbursable funds. In the  
  
annual budget process, costs for staff and equipment are fully reflected in  
  
the BCLs in which they reside; for example, in the Operations BCL. When  
  
reimbursable expenditures are made, the expenses are moved into this BCL to  
  
separate reimbursable and non-reimbursable costs, and to ensure the  
  
reimbursable costs are effectively managed and monitored.  
  
$1,266,025  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
M2000  
  
Court Operations  
  
The purpose of the Court Operations Budget Control Level is to hold  
  
hearings and address legal requirements for defendants and others who come  
  
before the Court. Some proceedings are held in formal courtrooms and others  
  
in magistrate offices, with the goal of providing timely resolution of  
  
alleged violations of City ordinances and misdemeanor crimes committed within  
  
the Seattle city limits.  
  
$15,220,160  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
M3000  
  
Court Administration  
  
The purpose of the Court Administration Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
administrative controls, develop and provide strategic direction, and provide  
  
policy and program development.  
  
$5,861,767  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
M4000  
  
Court Compliance  
  
The purpose of the Court Compliance Budget Control Level is to help  
  
defendants understand the Court's expectations and to assist them in  
  
successfully complying with court orders.  
  
$5,025,119  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P1000  
  
Chief of Police  
  
The purpose of the Chief of Police Program is to lead and direct  
  
department employees and to provide policy guidance and oversee relationships  
  
with the community, so the department can provide the City with professional,  
  
dependable, and respectful public safety services.  
  
$4,638,669  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P1300  
  
Office of Professional Accountability  
  
The purpose of the Office of Professional Accountability Budget Control  
  
Level is to help to provide oversight so that complaints involving department  
  
employees are handled in a thorough, professional, and expeditious manner, to  
  
retain the trust and confidence of employees and the public.  
  
$1,712,655  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P1600  
  
Deputy Chief of Staff  
  
The purpose of the Deputy Chief of Staff Budget Control Level is to  
  
oversee the organizational support and legal functions of the Department to  
  
help achieve its mission. The Deputy Chief of Staff Budget Control Level  
  
includes the Chief of Administration who oversees the Records and Files, Data  
  
Center and Public Request Programs, which had been their own Budget Control  
  
Levels in prior budgets. The Deputy Chief of Staff Budget Control Level was  
  
known as the Deputy Chief of Administration in previous budgets.  
  
$24,698,933  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P1800  
  
Deputy Chief Operations  
  
The purpose of the Deputy Chief Operations Budget Control Level is to  
  
oversee the operational functions of the Department so the public receives  
  
public safety services that are dependable, professional, and respectful. The  
  
Deputy Chief Operations Budget Control Level oversees the five Precincts and  
  
associated personnel.  
  
$702,553  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P3400  
  
Special Operations  
  
The purpose of the Special Operations Budget Control Level is to deploy  
  
specialized response units in emergencies and disasters. The Bureau provides  
  
crowd control, special event, search, hostage, crisis, and water-related  
  
support to monitor and protect critical infrastructure to protect lives and  
  
property, aid the work of uniformed officers and detectives, and ensure the  
  
safety of the public.  
  
$40,007,549  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P6000  
  
Patrol Operations Administration  
  
The purpose of the Patrol Operations Administration Budget Control Level  
  
is to provide oversight and direction to Patrol Operations, including the  
  
Department's five precincts, with the goal of ensuring that personnel are properly  
  
trained, supervised, and equipped to perform their jobs effectively.  
  
$1,277,964  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P6100  
  
West Precinct Patrol  
  
The purpose of the West Precinct Patrol Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
the full range of public safety and order maintenance services to residents  
  
of, and visitors to, the West Precinct, so that they can be safe in their  
  
homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.  
  
$28,959,409  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P6200  
  
North Precinct Patrol  
  
The purpose of the North Precinct Patrol Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide the full range of public safety and order maintenance services to  
  
residents of, and visitors to, the North Precinct, so that they can be safe  
  
in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.  
  
$30,933,920  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P6500  
  
South Precinct Patrol  
  
The purpose of the South Precinct Patrol Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide the full range of public safety and order maintenance services with  
  
the goal of keeping residents of, and visitors to, the South Precinct, safe  
  
in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.  
  
$16,788,701  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P6600  
  
East Precinct  
  
The purpose of the East Precinct Budget Control Level is to provide the  
  
full range of public safety and order maintenance services to residents of,  
  
and visitors to, the East Precinct, so they can be safe in their homes,  
  
schools, businesses, and the community at large.  
  
$22,585,390  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P6700  
  
Southwest Precinct Patrol  
  
The purpose of the Southwest Precinct Patrol Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide the full range of public safety and order maintenance services to  
  
residents of, and visitors to, the Southwest Precinct, so they can be safe in  
  
their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.  
  
$14,819,422  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P7000  
  
Criminal Investigations Administration  
  
The purpose of the Criminal Investigations Administration Budget Control  
  
Level is to direct and support the work of employees in the Criminal  
  
Investigations Bureau by providing oversight and policy guidance, and  
  
technical support so these employees can execute their job duties effectively  
  
and efficiently. The program includes the Internet Crimes against Children  
  
and Human Trafficking section and the Crime Gun Initiative analyst.  
  
$7,240,106  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P7100  
  
Violent Crimes Investigations  
  
The purpose of the Violent Crimes Investigations Budget Control Level is  
  
to apply a broad range of professional investigative skills and crime scene  
  
investigation techniques to homicide, assault, robbery, bias crimes, missing  
  
persons, extortion, threat and harassment, and gang-related cases, in order  
  
to hold offenders accountable, prevent further harm to victims, and promote  
  
public safety.  
  
$6,684,775  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P7700  
  
Narcotics Investigations  
  
The purpose of the Narcotics Investigations Budget Control Level is to  
  
apply a broad range of professional investigative skills to interdict  
  
narcotics activities affecting the community and region to hold offenders  
  
involved in these activities accountable and to promote public safety.  
  
$4,259,307  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P7800  
  
Special Investigations  
  
The purpose of the Special Investigations Budget Control Level is to apply  
  
a broad range of professional investigative and analytical skills toward  
  
investigating and interdicting vehicle theft, fraud, forgery, and financial  
  
exploitation cases; vice crimes and organized crime activities in the  
  
community; and toward identifying and describing crime patterns and trends  
  
with the goals of holding offenders involved in these activities accountable  
  
and to provide public safety.  
  
$4,085,635  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P7900  
  
Special Victims  
  
The purpose of the Special Victims Budget Control Level is to apply a  
  
broad range of professional investigative skills to cases involving family  
  
violence, sexual assault, child, and elder abuse, and custodial interference  
  
with the goals of holding offenders accountable, preventing additional harm  
  
to victims, and providing public safety.  
  
$5,798,157  
  
General Subfund  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
P8000  
  
Field Support Administration  
  
The purpose of the Field Support Administration Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide policy direction and guidance to the employees and programs in the  
  
Department, so they can execute their responsibilities effectively and efficiently.  
  
The Field Support Administration Budget Control Level now includes the  
  
Communications, Information Technology and Human Resources Programs; which  
  
were separate Budget Control Levels in prior budgets.  
  
$34,101,697  
  
General Subfund  
  
The Seattle Public Library  
  
B301111  
  
Library Major Maintenance (00100-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Library Major Maintenance Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide major maintenance to Library facilities, which include the Central  
  
Library and all branch libraries, to help ensure building integrity and  
  
improve functionality for patrons and staff.  
  
$220,000  
  
Judgment/Claims Subfund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
CJ000  
  
Judgment Claims - General  
  
The purpose of the Judgment Claims - General Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide for the payment of legal claims and suits brought against the City  
  
government. The subfund receives appropriations from the General Subfund and  
  
the utilities to pay for the judgments, settlements, claims, and other  
  
eligible expenses expected in the following year. Unused balances, if any,  
  
may reduce the contributions required in succeeding years.   
  
  
  
General Fund-supported departments with 2% or more of historical  
  
Judgment/Claims costs make premium payments to the subfund directly from  
  
their budgets. Finance General covers premiums for departments with less than  
  
2% of historical Judgment/Claims costs. Utilities pay their actual expenses  
  
as incurred through this budget control level.  
  
$26,434,739  
  
KeyArena Settlement Proceeds Fund  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00138-S03P04  
  
KeyArena (00138-CIP)  
  
The purpose of this Budget Control Level is to maintain and enhance the  
  
KeyArena facility. This BCL is supported by resources from the City's  
  
settlement with the Sonics (Fund 00138).  
  
$46,000  
  
Arts Account  
  
Executive  
  
VA140  
  
Arts Account  
  
The purpose of the Arts Account Budget Control Level (BCL) is to invest in  
  
Seattle's arts and cultural community to keep artists living and working in  
  
Seattle, to build community through arts and cultural events, and to increase  
  
arts opportunities for youth. The BCL appropriates the Office's admission tax  
  
set-aside, which is 75 percent of Admission Tax revenues.  
  
$4,423,075  
  
Cable Television Franchise Subfund  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
D160B  
  
Cable Fee Support to Information Technology Fund  
  
The purpose of the Cable Fee Support to Information Technology Fund Budget  
  
Control Level is to authorize the transfer of resources from the Cable  
  
Television Franchise Subfund to the Department of Information Technology's  
  
Information Technology Fund. These resources are used by the Department for a  
  
variety of programs consistent with Resolution 30379.  
  
$7,361,228  
  
Cable Television Franchise Subfund  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
D160C  
  
Cable Fee Support to Library Fund  
  
The purpose of the Cable Fee Support to Library Fund Budget Control Level  
  
is to authorize the transfer of resources from the Cable Television Franchise  
  
Subfund to the Seattle Public Library's Operating Fund. The Library uses  
  
these resources to pay for and maintain computers available to the public.  
  
$190,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
2ECM0  
  
CRS REET II Support to Transportation  
  
The purpose of the CRS REET II Support to Transportation Budget Control  
  
Level is to appropriate funds from REET II to the Transportation Operating  
  
Fund to support specific capital programs, or in the case of the Debt Service  
  
Program, appropriate funds to pay debt service costs directly from the REET  
  
II Subaccount.  
  
$5,819,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72440  
  
Debt Service and Contract Obligation (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract Obligation Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to meet principal repayment and interest obligations on funds  
  
borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital expenditure requirements and  
  
to provide funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is  
  
supported by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$1,633,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72441  
  
Parks Infrastructure (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Parks Infrastructure Budget Control Level (BCL) is to  
  
provide for the rehabilitation, replacement and addition of Parks  
  
infrastructure. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$472,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72442  
  
Forest Restoration (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Forest Restoration Budget Control Level (BCL) is to  
  
protect and restore Parks and Recreation's forest habitat and to mitigate  
  
future environmental impacts. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund  
  
00161).  
  
$1,131,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72444  
  
Building Component Renovations (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Building Component Renovations Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to rehabilitate and replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and  
  
their components. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$986,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72445  
  
Ballfields/Athletic Courts/Play Areas (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Ballfields/Athletic Courts/Play Areas Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to provide for the rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and  
  
Recreation's ballfields, athletic courts, and play areas. This BCL is funded  
  
by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$608,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72446  
  
Pools/Natatorium Renovations (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Pools/Natatorium Renovations Budget Control Level (BCL)  
  
is to provide for the rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and  
  
Recreation's pools. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$309,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72447  
  
Docks/Piers/Floats/ Seawalls/Shorelines (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Docks/Piers/Floats/Seawalls/Shorelines Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to provide for the rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and  
  
Recreation's docks, piers, floats, seawalls and shorelines. This BCL is  
  
funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$831,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72449  
  
Citywide and Neighborhood Projects (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Citywide and Neighborhood Projects Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to provide funds for the acquisition, development, and  
  
rehabilitation of neighborhood parks and green spaces. This BCL is funded by  
  
REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$660,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET II Subaccount (00161)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00161-K72861  
  
Parks Upgrade Program (00161-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Parks Upgrade Program Budget Control Level (BCL) is to  
  
provide minor capital improvements to low income area parks throughout the  
  
City. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$508,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00163-S0301  
  
Parking Repairs and Improvements (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Parking Repairs and Improvements Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to provide for improvements and repairs to Seattle Center's parking  
  
facilities, including the First Avenue North Garage, the Mercer Garage, and  
  
the Fifth Avenue North Garage. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund  
  
00163).  
  
$200,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00163-S03P01  
  
Campuswide Improvements and Repairs (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Campuswide Improvements and Repairs Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to provide for improvements throughout the Seattle Center  
  
campus, including lighting, signage, artwork maintenance, open space and hard  
  
surface repairs, accessibility improvements, and planning. This BCL is funded  
  
by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$297,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00163-S03P02  
  
Facility Infrastructure Renovation and Repair (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Facility Infrastructure Renovation and Repair Budget  
  
Control Level (BCL) is to provide for seismic improvements, roof repair and  
  
replacement, and other infrastructure improvements to facilities on the  
  
Seattle Center campus. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$980,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00163-S03P04  
  
Key Arena (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of this Budget Control Level is to maintain and enhance the  
  
KeyArena facility. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$400,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00163-S9113  
  
Center House Rehabilitation (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Center House Rehabilitation Budget Control Level (BCL)  
  
is to provide for major maintenance and improvements to the Center House at  
  
Seattle Center. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$180,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
2CCE0-1  
  
1998B Capital Facilities Refunding REET I  
  
The purpose of the 1998B Capital Facilities Refunding REET I Budget  
  
Control Level is to pay debt service on 1998 Series B Limited Tax General  
  
Obligation bonds, which were issued to refund bonds issued in 1992 at lower  
  
interest rates.  
  
$3,038,138  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
2SC10  
  
CRS REET I Support to McCaw Hall Fund  
  
The purpose of the CRS REET I Support to McCaw Hall Fund Budget Control  
  
Level is to appropriate resources from REET I to the McCaw Hall Fund to  
  
support major maintenance work on McCall Hall. Any capital projects related  
  
to the expenditure of this reserve are listed in Seattle Center's Capital  
  
Improvement Program.  
  
$200,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
2UU50-DC-163  
  
Design Commission - CRS REET I  
  
The purpose of the Design Commission - CRS REET I Budget Control Level is  
  
to support the Design Commission, which advises the Mayor, City Council, and  
  
City departments on the design of capital improvements and other projects  
  
that shape Seattle's public realm. The goals of the Commission are to see  
  
that public facilities and projects within the city's right-of-way  
  
incorporate design excellence, that City projects achieve their goals in an  
  
economical manner, and that they fit the City's design goals.  
  
$374,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
2UU51  
  
Tenant Relocation Assistance Program REET I  
  
The purpose of the Tenant Relocation Assistance Program REET I Budget  
  
Control Level is to allow the City to pay for relocation assistance to low  
  
income tenants displaced by development activity, as authorized by SMC 22.210  
  
and RCW 59.18.440.  
  
$113,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Executive  
  
V2ACGM-163  
  
Artwork Conservation - OACA - CRS REET I  
  
The purpose of the Artwork Conservation - OACA - CRS REET I Budget Control  
  
Level is to support the Arts Conservation Program, which is administered by  
  
the Office of Arts & Cultural Affairs. This program provides professional  
  
assessment, conservation, repair, routine and major maintenance, and  
  
relocation of artwork for both the City's approximately 400-piece,  
  
permanently sited art collection and the approximately 2,700-piece portable  
  
artwork collection. The entire collection is an asset to the City, and while  
  
major maintenance is generally not required for the new artwork entering the  
  
collection, professional routine care and responses to vandalism are  
  
necessary to protect this investment.  
  
$187,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00163-K72440  
  
Debt Service and Contract Obligation (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract Obligation Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to meet principal repayment and interest obligations on funds  
  
borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital expenditure requirements and  
  
to provide funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is  
  
funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$814,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00163-K72441  
  
Parks Infrastructure (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Parks Infrastructure Budget Control Level (BCL) is to  
  
provide for the rehabilitation, replacement and addition of Parks  
  
infrastructure. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$0  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00163-K72444  
  
Building Component Renovations (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Building Component Renovations Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to rehabilitate and replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and  
  
their components. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).  
  
$0  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00163-K72449  
  
Citywide and Neighborhood Projects (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Citywide and Neighborhood Projects Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to provide funds for the acquisition, development, and  
  
rehabilitation of neighborhood parks and green spaces. This BCL is funded by  
  
REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$325,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
00163-A1FL1  
  
Neighborhood Fire Stations (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Neighborhood Fire Stations Budget Control Level (BCL)  
  
is to replace and renovate fire stations and other emergency response  
  
facilities as part of the Fire Facilities and Emergency Response Levy  
  
program. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$5,586,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
00163-A1GM1  
  
General Government Facilities - General (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the General Government Facilities - General Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to execute capital projects in general government facilities.  
  
This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$200,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
00163-A1GM3  
  
Environmental Stewardship (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Environmental Stewardship Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide resources to projects that mitigate existing environmental damage or  
  
increase the energy efficiency of City facilities. This BCL is funded by REET  
  
I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$150,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
00163-A1PS1  
  
Public Safety Facilities - Police (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Public Safety Facilities - Police Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to renovate, expand, replace, or build police facilities. This BCL  
  
is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$500,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I Subaccount (00163)  
  
Seattle Public Library  
  
00163-B301111  
  
Library Major Maintenance (00163-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Library Major Maintenance Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide major maintenance to Library facilities, which include the Central  
  
Library and all branch libraries, to help ensure building integrity and  
  
improve functionality for patrons and staff. This BCL is funded by REET I  
  
dollars (Fund 00163).  
  
$830,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00164-S03P01  
  
Campuswide Improvements and Repairs (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Campuswide Improvements and Repairs Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to provide for improvements throughout the Seattle Center  
  
campus, including lighting, signage, artwork maintenance, open space and hard  
  
surface repairs, accessibility improvements, and planning. This BCL is funded  
  
by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$35,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00164-S9403  
  
Monorail Improvements (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Monorail Improvements Budget Control Level (BCL) is to  
  
provide for the renovation of the Seattle Center Monorail, including the two  
  
trains, the two stations and the guideways that run in between. This BCL is  
  
funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$1,318,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
00164-S9902  
  
Public Gathering Space Improvements (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Public Gathering Space Improvements Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to provide for major maintenance and improvements to meeting rooms,  
  
exhibition spaces, and public gathering spaces at Seattle Center. This BCL is  
  
funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$50,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund  
  
00164-CRS-U-GSF  
  
CRS-U Support to General Subfund  
  
The purpose of the CRS-U Support to General Subfund Budget Control Level  
  
is to appropriate funds from CRS Unrestricted Sub-account to the General  
  
Subfund to support general municipal purposes.  
  
$8,500,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund  
  
00164-KMOHAI  
  
MOHAI Replacement Facilities  
  
The purpose of the MOHAI Replacement Facilities BCL is to replace the  
  
functions and facilities of the Museum of History and Industry's (MOHAI)  
  
Montlake location, including but not limited to those facilities and  
  
functions included in MOHAI's proposed project at the Lake Union Armory. The  
  
City intends to use the proceeds it receives from the Washington State  
  
Department of Transportation's purchase of the city-owned MOHAI facility at  
  
Montlake to contract with MOHAI to replace those functions and facilities.  
  
$11,500,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
2UU50-TA  
  
Tenant Relocation Assistance Program - CRS-UR  
  
The purpose of the Tenant Relocation Assistance Program - CRS-UR Budget  
  
Control Level is to allow the City to pay for relocation assistance to  
  
low-income tenants displaced by development activity, as authorized by SMC  
  
22.210 and RCW 59.18.440.  
  
$74,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
CRS-U-SDOT  
  
CRS-U Support to Transportation  
  
The purpose of the CRS-U Support to Transportation Budget Control Level is  
  
to appropriate funds from CRS Unrestricted Sub-account to the Transportation  
  
Operating Fund to support specific capital programs and pay debt service on  
  
specified transportation projects.  
  
$1,112,950  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00164-K72253  
  
Golf Projects (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Golf Projects Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide  
  
for Golf related capital Projects. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted  
  
dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$504,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00164-K72440  
  
Debt Service and Contract Obligation (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract Obligation Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to meet principal repayment and interest obligations on funds  
  
borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital expenditure requirements and  
  
to provide funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is  
  
funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$905,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00164-K72442  
  
Forest Restoration (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Forest Restoration Budget Control Level (BCL) is to  
  
protect and restore Parks and Recreation's forest habitat and to mitigate  
  
future environmental impacts. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars  
  
(Fund 00164).  
  
$593,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00164-K72444  
  
Building Component Renovations (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Building Component Renovations Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to rehabilitate and replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and  
  
their components. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund  
  
00164).  
  
$140,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
00164-K72447  
  
Docks/Piers/Floats/ Seawalls/Shorelines (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Docks/Piers/Floats/Seawalls/Shorelines Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to provide for the rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and  
  
Recreation's docks, piers, floats, seawalls and shorelines. This BCL is  
  
funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).  
  
$27,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164)  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
00164-A51647  
  
Garden of Remembrance (00164-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Garden of Remembrance Budget Control Level (BCL) is to  
  
provide City support for replacing components of the memorial located at the  
  
Benaroya Concert Hall. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund  
  
00164)  
  
$23,000  
  
Neighborhood Matching Subfund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
2IN00  
  
Neighborhood Matching Fund  
  
The purpose of the Neighborhood Matching Fund Budget Control Level is to  
  
support local grassroots actions within neighborhoods. The Neighborhood  
  
Matching Fund provides funding to match community contributions of volunteer  
  
labor, donated professional services or materials, or cash, to implement  
  
neighborhood-based self-help projects.  
  
$3,248,759  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund, Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and  
  
Facilities (00168)  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
00168-A1AP1  
  
Asset Preservation - Civic Core (00168-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Civic Core Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to replace components of Civic Core buildings at the end of their  
  
useful lives. This BCL is funded by CRS Asset Preservation Subaccount -  
  
Fleets and Facilities dollars (Fund 00168).  
  
$1,400,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund, Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and  
  
Facilities (00168)  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
00168-A1AP2  
  
Asset Preservation - Seattle Municipal Tower (00168-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Seattle Municipal Tower Budget  
  
Control Level (BCL) is to replace components of the Seattle Municipal Tower  
  
at the end of their useful lives. This BCL is funded by CRS Asset  
  
Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities dollars (Fund 00168).  
  
$1,120,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund, Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and  
  
Facilities (00168)  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
00168-A1AP4  
  
Asset Preservation - Shops and Yards (00168-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Shops and Yards Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to replace components of shop and yard facilities at the end  
  
of their useful lives. This BCL is funded by CRS Asset Preservation  
  
Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities dollars (Fund 00168).  
  
$100,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund, Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and  
  
Facilities (00168)  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
00168-A1AP6  
  
Asset Preservation - Public Safety Facilities (00168-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Public Safety Facilities Budget  
  
Control Level (BCL) is to replace components of public safety facilities at  
  
the end of their useful lives. This BCL is funded by CRS Asset Preservation  
  
Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities dollars (Fund 00168).  
  
$1,100,000  
  
Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Street Vacation Subaccount (00169)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
CRS-StVac-SDOT  
  
CRS Street Vacation Support to Transportation  
  
The purpose of the CRS Street Vacation Support to Transportation Budget  
  
Control Level is to appropriate funds from the CRS Street Vacation Subaccount  
  
to the Transportation Operating Fund to support specific capital programs.  
  
$300,000  
  
Emergency Subfund (00185)  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
AE000  
  
Emergency Expenditures  
  
The purpose of the Emergency Expenditures Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide resources to pay unanticipated expenses as described in state law  
  
(RCW 35.32A.060).  
  
$750,000  
  
Transit Benefit Subfund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
TRANSITB1  
  
Transit Benefit  
  
The purpose of the Transit Benefit Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
appropriation authority for the transit benefits offered to City employees.  
  
The Transit Benefit Subfund receives payments from Finance General and fee  
  
supported departments to pay for reduced cost King County Metro and  
  
Washington State Ferry transit passes and related administrative expenses.  
  
$5,041,000  
  
Special Employment Program Subfund  
  
Personnel Department  
  
NT000  
  
Special Employment  
  
The purpose of the Special Employment Budget Control Level is to capture  
  
the expenditures associated with outside agency use of the City's temporary,  
  
intern, and work study programs. Outside agencies reimburse the City for  
  
costs. Expenses related to employees hired by City departments through the  
  
Special Employment Program are charged directly to the departments.  
  
$315,580  
  
Industrial Insurance Subfund  
  
Personnel Department  
  
NR500  
  
Industrial Insurance  
  
The purpose of the Industrial Insurance Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
for medical, wage replacement, pension and disability claims related to  
  
occupational injuries and illnesses, occupational medical monitoring,  
  
workplace safety programs, and related expenses. Since 1972, the City of  
  
Seattle has been a self-insured employer as authorized under state law. The  
  
Industrial Insurance Subfund receives payments from City departments to pay  
  
for these costs and related administrative expenses.  
  
$19,128,820  
  
Unemployment Insurance Subfund  
  
Personnel Department  
  
NS000  
  
Unemployment Insurance  
  
The purpose of the Unemployment Insurance Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide the budget authority for the City to pay unemployment compensation  
  
expenses. The City is a self-insured employer with respect to unemployment  
  
insurance. The Unemployment Insurance Subfund contains the revenues and  
  
expenditures associated with the City's unemployment benefit costs for  
  
employees.  
  
$5,406,059  
  
Health Care Subfund  
  
Personnel Department  
  
NM000  
  
Health Care  
  
The purpose of the Health Care Budget Control Level is to provide for the  
  
City's medical, dental, and vision insurance programs; the Flexible Spending  
  
Account; the Employee Assistance Program; and COBRA continuation coverage  
  
costs. The City is self-insured and re-insured for some medical plans, and  
  
carries insurance for other medical plans and for all dental and vision  
  
plans.  
  
$154,807,010  
  
Group Term Life Insurance Subfund  
  
Personnel Department  
  
NA000  
  
Group Term Life  
  
The purpose of the Group Term Life Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
appropriation authority for the City's group term life insurance, long-term  
  
disability insurance, and accidental death and dismemberment insurance.  
  
$3,493,000  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10200-K72440  
  
Debt Service and Contract Obligation (10200-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract Obligation Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to meet principal repayment and interest obligations on funds  
  
borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital expenditure requirements and  
  
to provide funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is  
  
funded by Park and Recreation Fund dollars (Fund 10200).  
  
$40,000  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K310C  
  
Swimming, Boating, and Aquatics  
  
The purpose of the Swimming, Boating, and Aquatics Budget Control Level is  
  
to provide a variety of structured and unstructured water-related programs  
  
and classes so participants can enjoy and develop skills in a range of  
  
aquatic activities.  
  
$7,288,617  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K310D  
  
Recreation Facilities and Programs  
  
The purpose of the Recreation Facilities and Programs Budget Control Level  
  
is to manage and staff the City's neighborhood community centers and Citywide  
  
recreation facilities and programs, which allow Seattle residents to enjoy a  
  
variety of social, athletic, cultural, and recreational activities.  
  
$21,828,100  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K320A  
  
Facility and Structure Maintenance  
  
The purpose of the Facility and Structure Maintenance Budget Control Level  
  
is to repair and maintain park buildings and infrastructure so that park  
  
users can have structurally sound and attractive parks and recreational  
  
facilities.  
  
$12,958,173  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K320B  
  
Park Cleaning, Landscaping, and Restoration  
  
The purpose of the Park Cleaning, Landscaping, and Restoration Budget  
  
Control Level is to provide custodial, landscape, and forest maintenance and  
  
restoration services in an environmentally sound fashion to provide park  
  
users with safe, useable, and attractive park areas.  
  
$24,665,543  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K320C  
  
Seattle Conservation Corps  
  
The purpose of the Seattle Conservation Corps Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide training, counseling, and employment to homeless and unemployed  
  
people so that they acquire skills and experience leading to long-term  
  
employment and stability.  
  
$4,073,257  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K350A  
  
Seattle Aquarium  
  
The purpose of the Seattle Aquarium Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
exhibits and environmental educational opportunities that expand knowledge  
  
of, inspire interest in, and encourage stewardship of the aquatic wildlife  
  
and habitats of Puget Sound and the Pacific Northwest.  
  
$4,713,222  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K350B  
  
Woodland Park Zoo  
  
In December 2001, the City of Seattle, by Ordinance 120697, established an  
  
agreement with the non-profit Woodland Park Zoological Society to operate and  
  
manage the Woodland Park Zoo beginning in March 2002. The Department's budget  
  
includes the City's support for Zoo operations. The purpose of the Zoo is to  
  
provide care for animals and offer exhibits, educational programs, and  
  
appealing visitor amenities so Seattle residents and visitors have the  
  
opportunity to enjoy and learn about animals and wildlife conservation.  
  
$6,483,698  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K370C  
  
Planning, Development, and Acquisition  
  
The purpose of the Planning, Development, and Acquisition Budget Control  
  
Level is to acquire, plan, design, develop and coordinate the construction of  
  
new, and the improvement of existing, parks and related facilities to benefit  
  
the citizens of Seattle and the City's guests. This includes providing  
  
engineering and technical services to solve maintenance and operational  
  
problems, and preserving open spaces through a combination of direct  
  
purchases, transfers and consolidations of City-owned lands, voluntary conservation  
  
measures, and developing resolutions to property encroachment issues.  
  
$6,714,198  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K380A  
  
Judgment and Claims  
  
The Judgment and Claims Budget Control Level pays for judgments,  
  
settlements, claims, and other eligible expenses associated with legal claims  
  
and suits against the City. Premiums are based on average percentage of  
  
Judgment/Claims expenses incurred by the Department over the previous five  
  
years.  
  
$1,143,365  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K390A  
  
Finance and Administration  
  
The purpose of the Finance and Administration Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide the financial, technological, and business development support  
  
necessary to provide effective delivery of the Department's services.  
  
$8,832,740  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K390B  
  
Policy Direction and Leadership  
  
The purpose of the Policy Direction and Leadership Budget Control Level is  
  
to provide guidance within the Department and outreach to the community on  
  
policies that enable the Department to offer outstanding parks and recreation  
  
opportunities to Seattle residents and our guests.  
  
$3,734,284  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K400A  
  
Golf  
  
The purpose of the Golf Budget Control Level is to efficiently manage the  
  
City's four golf courses at Jackson, Jefferson, West Seattle, and Interbay to  
  
provide top-quality public golf courses and maximize earned revenues.  
  
$9,017,500  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K410A  
  
Golf Capital Reserve  
  
The purpose of the Golf Capital Reserve Budget Control Level is to  
  
transfer resources from the Parks and Recreation Fund to the Cumulative  
  
Reserve Subfund to provide for previously identified Golf Program capital  
  
projects. There are no staff and no program services delivered through this  
  
program.  
  
$435,000  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K430A  
  
Environmental Learning and Programs  
  
The purpose of the Environmental Learning and Programs Budget Control  
  
Level is to deliver and manage environmental stewardship programs and the  
  
City's environmental education centers at Discovery Park, Carkeek Park, Seward  
  
Park, and Camp Long. The programs are designed to encourage Seattle residents  
  
to take actions that respect the rights of all living things and  
  
environments, and to contribute to healthy and livable communities.  
  
$3,518,159  
  
Park and Recreation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
K430B  
  
Natural Resources Management  
  
The purpose of the Natural Resources Management Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide cost efficient and centralized management for the "living  
  
inventories" of the Department of Parks and Recreation. Direct  
  
management responsibilities include greenhouses, nurseries, the Volunteer  
  
Park Conservatory, landscape and urban forest restoration programs, sport  
  
field turf management, water conservation programs, pesticide reduction and  
  
wildlife management, and heavy equipment support for departmental operations  
  
and capital projects.  
  
$6,318,281  
  
Gasworks Park Contamination Remediation Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10220-K72582  
  
Gas Works Park Remediation (10220-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Gas Works Park Remediation Budget Control Level (BCL)  
  
is to provide ongoing monitoring efforts to ensure the measures constructed  
  
for remediation of soils at Gas Works Park were effective. This BCL is funded  
  
by the 2000 Parks Levy Fund dollars (Fund 33850).  
  
$20,000  
  
Golf Subfund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
10240-K72253  
  
Golf Projects (10240-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Golf Projects Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide  
  
for Golf-related capital Projects. This BCL is funded by Golf Fund dollars  
  
(Fund 10240).  
  
$582,000  
  
Transportation Operating Fund  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
17001  
  
Bridges & Structures  
  
The purpose of the Bridges and Structures Budget Control Level is to  
  
maintain the City's bridges and structures which helps provide for the safe  
  
and efficient movement of people, goods, and services throughout the city.  
  
$7,525,676  
  
Transportation Operating Fund  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
17002  
  
Engineering Services  
  
The purpose of the Engineering Services Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
construction management for capital projects, engineering support for street  
  
vacations, the scoping of neighborhood projects, and other transportation  
  
activities requiring transportation engineering and project management  
  
expertise.  
  
$1,891,726  
  
Transportation Operating Fund  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
17003  
  
Mobility-Operations  
  
The purpose of the Mobility-Operations Budget Control level is to promote  
  
the safe and efficient operation of all transportation modes in the City of  
  
Seattle. This includes managing the parking, pedestrian, and bicycle  
  
infrastructure; implementing neighborhood plans; encouraging alternative  
  
modes of transportation; and maintaining and improving signals and the  
  
non-electrical transportation management infrastructure.  
  
$36,842,898  
  
Transportation Operating Fund  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
17004  
  
ROW Management  
  
The purpose of the Right-of-Way (ROW) Management Budget Control Level is  
  
to ensure that projects throughout the city meet code specifications for uses  
  
of the right-of-way and to provide plan review, utility permit and street use  
  
permit issuance, and utility inspection and mapping services.  
  
$12,134,526  
  
Transportation Operating Fund  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
17005  
  
Street Maintenance  
  
The purpose of the Street Maintenance Budget Control Level is to maintain  
  
Seattle's roadways and sidewalks. Repair and maintenance of the right-of-way  
  
promotes safety, enhances mobility, and protects the environment. Through planned  
  
maintenance, cleaning, and spot repairs of streets, alleys, pathways, and  
  
stairways, Street Maintenance improves the quality of life and business  
  
climate in the city.  
  
$30,059,962  
  
Transportation Operating Fund  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
17006  
  
Urban Forestry  
  
The purpose of the Urban Forestry Budget Control Level is to administer,  
  
maintain, protect, and expand the City's urban landscape in the street  
  
right-of-way through the maintenance and planting of new trees and  
  
landscaping to enhance the environment and aesthetics of the city. The Urban  
  
Forestry BCL maintains city-owned trees to improve the safety of the  
  
right-of-way for Seattle's residents and visitors.  
  
$4,103,255  
  
Transportation Operating Fund  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
18001  
  
Department Management  
  
The purpose of the Department Management Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide leadership and operations support services to accomplish the mission  
  
and goals of the department. This BCL also supports the efforts and services  
  
provided by the Urban League's Contractor Development and Competitiveness  
  
Center (CDCC) for the development of small, economically-disadvantaged  
  
businesses, including women and minority firms, as authorized by Ordinance  
  
120888.  
  
$712,185  
  
Transportation Operating Fund  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
18002  
  
General Expense  
  
The purpose of the General Expense Budget Control Level is to account for  
  
certain City business expenses necessary to the overall effective and  
  
efficient delivery of transportation services. It equitably recovers funding  
  
from all transportation funding sources to pay for these indirect cost  
  
services. It also includes SDOT Judgment and Claims contributions and debt  
  
service payments made by SDOT.  
  
$22,787,184  
  
Transportation Operating Fund  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
19001  
  
Major Maintenance/ Replacement  
  
The purpose of the Major Maintenance/Replacement Budget Control Level is  
  
to provide maintenance and replacement of roads, trails, bike paths, bridges,  
  
and structures.  
  
$52,572,001  
  
Transportation Operating Fund  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
19002  
  
Major Projects  
  
The purpose of the Major Projects Budget Control Level is to design,  
  
manage and construct improvements to the transportation infrastructure for  
  
the benefit of the traveling public including freight, transit, other public  
  
agencies, pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists.  
  
$105,133,979  
  
Transportation Operating Fund  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
19003  
  
Mobility-Capital  
  
The purpose of the Mobility-Capital Budget Control Level is to help  
  
maximize the movement of traffic throughout the City by enhancing all modes  
  
of transportation including corridor and intersection improvements, transit  
  
and HOV improvements and sidewalk and pedestrian facilities.  
  
$32,634,416  
  
Library Fund  
  
Seattle Public Library  
  
B1ADM  
  
Administrative Services  
  
The purpose of Administrative Services is to support the delivery of  
  
library services to the public.  
  
$9,071,553  
  
Library Fund  
  
Seattle Public Library  
  
B2CTL  
  
City Librarian's Office  
  
The purpose of the City Librarian's Office is to provide leadership for  
  
the Library in the implementation of policies and strategic directions set by  
  
the Library Board of Trustees.  
  
$985,900  
  
Library Fund  
  
Seattle Public Library  
  
B3CTS  
  
Information Technology  
  
The purpose of Information Technology is to provide quality data  
  
processing infrastructure and services so that Library patrons and staff have  
  
free and easy access to a vast array of productivity tools, ideas,  
  
information, and knowledge.  
  
$3,220,932  
  
Library Fund  
  
Seattle Public Library  
  
B4PUB  
  
Library Services  
  
The purpose of the Library Services Division is to provide services,  
  
materials and programs that benefit and are valued by Library patrons.  
  
Library Services provides technical and collection services in order to  
  
provide information access and Library materials to all patrons.  
  
$35,856,772  
  
Library Fund  
  
Seattle Public Library  
  
B5HRS  
  
Human Resources  
  
The purpose of Human Resources is to provide responsive and equitable  
  
services, including human resources policy development, recruitment,  
  
classification and compensation, payroll, labor and employee relations,  
  
volunteer services, and staff training services so that the Library maintains  
  
a productive and well-supported work force.  
  
$1,017,651  
  
Streetcar Fund  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
STCAR-OPER  
  
Streetcar Operations  
  
The purpose of the Streetcar Operations Budget Control Level is to operate  
  
and maintain the South Lake Union line of the Seattle Streetcar.  
  
$611,716  
  
Pike Place Levy  
  
Executive  
  
PKLVYBCL-01  
  
Pike Place Market Renovation  
  
The purpose of the Pike Place Market Renovation Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide appropriation authority for the City's disbursement of funds to the  
  
Pike Place Market Preservation and Development Authority (PDA) in compliance  
  
with the "Agreement regarding Levy Proceeds by and between the City of  
  
Seattle and the Pike Place Market Preservation and Development  
  
Authority" related to renovation and improvements to the Pike Place  
  
Market.  
  
$16,768,000  
  
Pike Place Levy  
  
Executive  
  
PKLVYBCL-02  
  
Pike Place Market Renovation Debt Service  
  
The purpose of the Pike Place Market Renovation Debt Service Budget  
  
Control Level is to provide appropriation authority for the City's payment of  
  
debt service for debt issued in support of the Pike Place Market Renovation  
  
funded by levy proceeds.  
  
$3,892,431  
  
Seattle Center Fund  
  
Seattle Center  
  
SC600  
  
Campus Grounds  
  
The purpose of the Campus Grounds Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
gathering spaces and open-air venues in the City's urban core. The grounds  
  
knit together the whole of the campus and are Seattle Center's biggest asset.  
  
Program services include landscape maintenance, security patrols and  
  
lighting, litter and garbage removal, recycling operations, hard surface and  
  
site amenities maintenance, and management of revenues associated with  
  
leasing outdoor spaces.  
  
$11,542,599  
  
Seattle Center Fund  
  
Seattle Center  
  
SC610  
  
Festivals  
  
The purpose of the Festivals Budget Control Level is to provide a place  
  
for the community to hold major festival celebrations. This program includes  
  
the revenue and expenses related to the Giant Magnet, Northwest Folklife  
  
Festival, Bite of Seattle, and Bumbershoot events.  
  
$822,596  
  
Seattle Center Fund  
  
Seattle Center  
  
SC620  
  
Community Programs  
  
The purpose of the Community Programs Budget Control Level is to produce  
  
free and low-cost programs that connect diverse cultures, create learning  
  
opportunities, honor community traditions, and nurture artistry and  
  
creativity.  
  
$1,979,210  
  
Seattle Center Fund  
  
Seattle Center  
  
SC630  
  
Cultural Facilities  
  
The purpose of the Cultural Facilities Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
spaces for performing arts and cultural organizations to exhibit, perform,  
  
entertain, and create learning opportunities for diverse local, national, and  
  
international audiences.  
  
$147,940  
  
Seattle Center Fund  
  
Seattle Center  
  
SC640  
  
Commercial Events  
  
The purpose of the Commercial Events Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
the spaces and services needed to host a wide variety of commercial events,  
  
both for profit and not for profit, sponsored and produced by private and  
  
community promoters.  
  
$922,826  
  
Seattle Center Fund  
  
Seattle Center  
  
SC650  
  
McCaw Hall  
  
The McCaw Hall Budget Control Level includes funds for the operation and  
  
maintenance of the McCaw Hall as the premier performing arts venue in the  
  
Seattle region. In cooperation with Seattle Opera and Pacific Northwest  
  
Ballet, Seattle Center manages and operates McCaw Hall as the home of the  
  
Opera and Ballet. The Seattle International Film Festival also holds its  
  
annual festival and many other film screenings in this facility.  
  
$3,936,463  
  
Seattle Center Fund  
  
Seattle Center  
  
SC660  
  
KeyArena  
  
The purpose of the KeyArena Budget Control Level is to manage and operate  
  
the KeyArena as the premier entertainment venue in the Seattle region.  
  
Included in this category are all operations related to sports teams playing  
  
in the arena, along with concerts, family shows, and private meetings.  
  
$5,489,519  
  
Seattle Center Fund  
  
Seattle Center  
  
SC670  
  
Access  
  
The purpose of the Access Budget Control Level is to provide the services  
  
needed to assist visitors in coming to and traveling from the campus, while  
  
reducing congestion in adjoining neighborhoods. Program services include  
  
operating parking services, maintaining parking garages, managing the Seattle  
  
Center Monorail, and encouraging use of alternate modes of transportation.  
  
$1,102,649  
  
Seattle Center Fund  
  
Seattle Center  
  
SC680  
  
Debt  
  
The purpose of the Debt Budget Control Level is to provide payments and  
  
collect associated revenues related to the debt service for McCaw Hall.  
  
$139,194  
  
Seattle Center Fund  
  
Seattle Center  
  
SC690  
  
Administration-SC  
  
The purpose of the Administration Budget Control Level is to provide the  
  
financial, human resource, technology, and business support necessary to  
  
provide effective delivery of the department's services. Program services  
  
include administrative oversight and support to all other department  
  
programs, financial management of the Department's operating funds, and  
  
management of the department's Capital Improvement Program.  
  
$6,963,309  
  
Seattle Center Fund  
  
Seattle Center  
  
SC710  
  
Judgment and Claims  
  
The Judgment/Claims Budget Control Level pays for judgments, settlements,  
  
claims, and other eligible expenses associated with legal claims and suits  
  
against the City. Premiums are based on average percentage of Judgment/Claims  
  
expenses incurred by the Department over the previous five years.  
  
$931,564  
  
Planning and Development Fund  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
U2200  
  
Land Use Services  
  
The purpose of the Land Use Services Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
land use permitting services to project applicants, City of Seattle  
  
departments, public agencies, and residents. These services are intended to  
  
allow development proposals to be reviewed in a fair, reasonable, efficient,  
  
and predictable manner, and substantially comply with applicable codes, legal  
  
requirements, policies, and community design standards. Additionally, this  
  
budget control level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of  
  
departmental administration and other overhead costs.  
  
$3,727,576  
  
Planning and Development Fund  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
U2300  
  
Construction Permit Services  
  
The purpose of the Construction Permit Services Budget Control Level is to  
  
facilitate the review of development plans and processing of permits so that  
  
applicants can plan, alter, construct, occupy, and maintain Seattle's  
  
buildings and property. Additionally, this budget control level includes the  
  
allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other  
  
overhead costs.  
  
$17,151,360  
  
Planning and Development Fund  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
U23A0  
  
Construction Inspections  
  
The purpose of the Construction Inspections Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide timely on-site inspections of property under development to support  
  
substantial compliance with applicable City codes, ordinances, and approved  
  
plans. Additionally, this budget control level includes the allocation of a  
  
proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.  
  
$13,307,815  
  
Planning and Development Fund  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
U2400  
  
Code Compliance  
  
The purpose of the Code Compliance Budget Control Level is to see that  
  
properties and buildings are used and maintained in conformance with code  
  
standards, and deterioration of structures and properties is reduced.  
  
Additionally, this budget control level includes the allocation of a  
  
proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.  
  
$4,622,147  
  
Planning and Development Fund  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
U24A0  
  
Annual Certification and Inspection  
  
The purpose of the Annual Certification and Inspection Budget Control  
  
Level is to provide inspections of mechanical equipment at installation and  
  
on an annual or biennial cycle in a fair, reasonable, efficient, and  
  
predictable manner. These services are provided so mechanical equipment is  
  
substantially maintained to applicable codes, legal requirements, and  
  
policies, and operated safely. The program also certifies that installers and  
  
mechanics are qualified, by validation of work experience and testing of code  
  
knowledge, to operate and maintain mechanical equipment. In addition, this  
  
budget control level includes a proportionate share of associated  
  
departmental administration and other overhead costs.  
  
$3,968,165  
  
Planning and Development Fund  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
U2800  
  
Process Improvements and Technology  
  
The purpose of the Process Improvements and Technology Budget Control  
  
Level is to allow the department to plan and implement continuous  
  
improvements to its business processes, including related staff training and  
  
equipment purchases; and to see that the Department's major technology  
  
investments are maintained, upgraded, or replaced when necessary.  
  
$776,261  
  
Planning and Development Fund  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
U2900  
  
Planning  
  
The purpose of the Planning Budget Control Level is to manage growth and  
  
development consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, and to inform and guide  
  
decisions for shaping and preserving Seattle so that it is a vital urban  
  
environment. Planning staff does this work by stewarding the Comprehensive  
  
Plan and supporting its core values of community, environmental stewardship,  
  
social equity and economic opportunity. Staff conduct research and make use of  
  
the best urban design strategies when preparing plans for areas of the City  
  
that are impacted by growth or major public investments. Additionally, the  
  
Planning Budget Control Level includes the staff of the Design Commission and  
  
Planning Commission, and includes the allocation of a proportionate share of  
  
departmental administration and other overhead costs.  
  
$6,724,118  
  
Human Services Operating Fund  
  
Human Services Department  
  
H20YD  
  
Youth Development and Achievement  
  
The purpose of the Youth Development and Achievement Budget Control Level  
  
is to provide services to youth to support their developmental needs, and  
  
facilitate their ability to gain the skills and assets necessary to grow into  
  
healthy, successful adults and contributing members of the community.  
  
$10,476,580  
  
Human Services Operating Fund  
  
Human Services Department  
  
H30CF  
  
Community Facilities  
  
The purpose of the Community Facilities Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
technical assistance and capital funding to community-based human service  
  
organizations to help the organizations plan and develop facility projects to  
  
improve the quality, capacity, and efficiency of service delivery.  
  
$591,063  
  
Human Services Operating Fund  
  
Human Services Department  
  
H30ET  
  
Emergency and Transitional Services  
  
The purpose of the Emergency and Transitional Services Budget Control  
  
Level is to provide emergency and transitional services and permanent housing  
  
to homeless and low-income people in Seattle, so they have access to  
  
nutritious food and a path to stable, permanent housing.  
  
$28,430,476  
  
Human Services Operating Fund  
  
Human Services Department  
  
H40DV  
  
Domestic and Sexual Violence Prevention  
  
The purpose of the Domestic and Sexual Violence Prevention Budget Control  
  
Level is to provide leadership and coordination of City and community  
  
strategies, education, and training to improve response to, and prevention  
  
of, violence against women and children.  
  
$4,583,174  
  
Human Services Operating Fund  
  
Human Services Department  
  
H50LA  
  
Leadership and Administration  
  
The purpose of the Leadership and Administration Budget Control Level is  
  
to provide leadership and support to the Human Services Department, the City  
  
of Seattle, and the community, with the goal of seeing that human services  
  
are responsive to community needs, are delivered through effective and  
  
accountable systems, economic disparity is decreased, and racism and other  
  
oppressions are dismantled.  
  
$7,739,260  
  
Human Services Operating Fund  
  
Human Services Department  
  
H60AD  
  
Area Agency on Aging  
  
The purpose of the Area Agency on Aging Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
a network of community support that improves choice, promotes independence,  
  
and enhances the quality of life for older people and adults with  
  
disabilities.  
  
$58,474,395  
  
Human Services Operating Fund  
  
Human Services Department  
  
H60SS  
  
Self-Sufficiency  
  
The purpose of the Self-Sufficiency Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
utility and other discount programs and employment opportunities for seniors  
  
and adults with disabilities to improve their ability to remain economically  
  
independent.  
  
$1,810,293  
  
Human Services Operating Fund  
  
Human Services Department  
  
H70PH  
  
Public Health Services  
  
Beginning in 2005, all funding previously directed to Public Health -  
  
Seattle and King County was moved to the Human Services Department (HSD). To  
  
reduce administrative costs and see that its public health investments are  
  
consistent with City policy direction, the City enters into outcome-based  
  
contracts with community-based agencies, Public Health, and the King County  
  
Department of Community and Human Services for services. HSD advises the City  
  
on public health policy, manages health-related contracts, and serves as a  
  
regional liaison to Public Health - Seattle and King County. Public health  
  
services currently supported by City funds are: - Primary care medical,  
  
dental, and specialty services, and access to health insurance for at-risk  
  
and vulnerable populations; - Health care for teens in Seattle's public  
  
schools; - Health care for homeless individuals and families; - HIV/AIDS  
  
prevention and care programs; - Programs to provide access to chemical and  
  
dependency services; - Programs to reduce the disparities in health among the  
  
Seattle population; and - Public health nursing care home visits to give  
  
mothers and babies a healthy start in life.  
  
$11,141,644  
  
Human Services Operating Fund  
  
Human Services Department  
  
H80EL  
  
Early Learning and Family Support  
  
The purpose of the Early Learning and Family Support Budget Control Level  
  
is to provide children and families access to affordable, culturally  
  
relevant, high-quality care and education, out-of-school time activities, citizenship  
  
assistance, advocacy, leadership development, and other family support  
  
resources, so that parents can maintain or achieve economic self-sufficiency  
  
and children will gain the necessary skills and assets to be healthy,  
  
successful in school, and contributing members of the community.  
  
$13,673,237  
  
Low-Income Housing Fund  
  
Executive  
  
XZ-R1  
  
Low-Income Housing Fund 16400  
  
The purpose of the Low-Income Housing Fund 16400 Budget Control Level is  
  
to fund multi-family housing production, and to support homeownership and  
  
sustainability.  
  
$35,150,682  
  
Housing Operating Fund  
  
Executive  
  
XZ600  
  
Office of Housing Operating Fund 16600  
  
The purpose of the Office of Housing Operating Fund 16600 Budget Control  
  
Level is to fund the Department's administration activities.  
  
$4,588,146  
  
Community Development Block Grant Fund  
  
Human Services Department  
  
6HSD10  
  
CDBG - Human Services Department  
  
The purpose of the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) - Human  
  
Services Department Budget Control Level is to find and fund solutions for  
  
human needs so low-income, vulnerable residents in greater Seattle can live  
  
and thrive. HSD contracts with community-based human service providers and  
  
administers programs to see that residents of Seattle and King County have  
  
access to homeless shelters, transitional housing, and other emergency services.  
  
The federal CDBG program provides a major source of funding for community  
  
development programs affecting Seattle's low- and moderate-income households  
  
and neighborhoods. The City of Seattle makes these investments so all  
  
families and individuals can meet their basic needs, share in economic  
  
prosperity, and participate in building a safe, healthy, educated, just, and  
  
caring community. Policies and priorities for distributing CDBG funds to  
  
community-based organizations are set out in the City's 2009-2012  
  
Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development, which is coordinated  
  
by the Human Services Department.  
  
$5,874,791  
  
Community Development Block Grant Fund  
  
Human Services Department  
  
6XD10  
  
CDBG - Office of Economic Development  
  
The purpose of the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) - Office of  
  
Economic Development Budget Control Level is to help create and maintain  
  
healthy businesses, thriving neighborhoods, and community organizations to  
  
contribute to a robust economy that will benefit all Seattle residents and  
  
future generations. The federal CDBG program provides a major source of  
  
funding for community development programs affecting Seattle's low- and  
  
moderate-income households and neighborhoods. The City of Seattle makes these  
  
investments so all families and individuals can meet their basic needs, share  
  
in economic prosperity, and participate in building a safe, healthy,  
  
educated, just, and caring community. Policies and priorities for  
  
distributing CDBG funds to community-based organizations are set out in the  
  
City's 2009-2012 Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development,  
  
which is coordinated by the Human Services Department.  
  
$5,003,675  
  
Community Development Block Grant Fund  
  
Human Services Department  
  
6XZ10  
  
CDBG - Office of Housing  
  
The purpose of the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) - Office of  
  
Housing Budget Control Level is to provide opportunities for residents to  
  
thrive by investing in and promoting the development and preservation of  
  
affordable housing. The federal CDBG program provides a major source of  
  
funding for community development programs affecting Seattle's low- and  
  
moderate-income households and neighborhoods. The City of Seattle makes these  
  
investments so all families and individuals can meet their basic needs, share  
  
in economic prosperity, and participate in building a safe, healthy,  
  
educated, just, and caring community. Policies and priorities for  
  
distributing CDBG funds to community-based organizations are set out in the City's  
  
2009-2012 Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development, which is  
  
coordinated by the Human Services Department.  
  
$2,762,293  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
IL100  
  
Early Learning  
  
The purpose of the Early Learning Budget Control Level is to increase  
  
access for low-income families to higher quality and more extensive  
  
educational child care, and to expand the number of current early childhood  
  
education programs to allow children to enter Seattle's schools ready to  
  
learn.  
  
$4,209,435  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
IL200  
  
Family Support and Family Involvement  
  
The purpose of the Family Support and Family Involvement Budget Control  
  
Level is to provide culturally relevant family support services and community  
  
resources in schools, and to create authentic partnerships among schools,  
  
parents, and communities.  
  
$3,082,852  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
IL300  
  
Support for High-Risk Middle and High School Age Youth  
  
The purpose of the Support for High-Risk Middle and High School Age Youth  
  
Budget Control Level is to provide intensive services to middle and high  
  
school age youth to reduce risk factors that affect their ability to achieve  
  
academically and complete school.  
  
$1,327,042  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
IL400  
  
Out-of-School Time  
  
The purpose of the Out-of-School Time Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
safe and academically focused after-school programs for middle and elementary  
  
school students.  
  
$2,963,348  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
IL500  
  
Student Health  
  
The purpose of the Student Health Budget Control Level is to maintain the  
  
existing infrastructure of school-based health services to reduce  
  
health-related barriers to learning and academic achievement.  
  
$4,082,508  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
IL700  
  
Administration and Evaluation  
  
The purpose of the Administration and Evaluation Budget Control Level is  
  
to see that Levy funds are used effectively and achieve their intended goals.  
  
$746,719  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
IL800  
  
Middle School Support  
  
The purpose of the Middle School Support Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide early intervention services to middle school students to improve  
  
their ability to achieve academically and to complete school.  
  
$1,420,322  
  
Educational & Developmental Services Fund  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
IL900  
  
Academic Improvement Activities  
  
The purpose of the Academic Improvement Activities Budget Control Level is  
  
to provide resources and technical support for improving academic  
  
performance.  
  
$55,000  
  
Bond Interest and Redemption  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
DEBTBIRF  
  
Bond Interest and Redemption  
  
The purpose of the Bond Interest and Redemption Budget Control Level is to  
  
create legal appropriation authority for debt service payments to be made  
  
through the Bond Interest and Redemption Fund (BIRF) from outside sources.  
  
$1,616,064  
  
UTGO Bond Interest and Redemption Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
DEBTUTGO  
  
UTGO Debt Service  
  
The purpose of the UTGO Debt Service Budget Control Level is to create the  
  
legal appropriations to pay debt service on outstanding Unlimited Tax General  
  
Obligation (UTGO) Bonds.  
  
$17,039,635  
  
2000 Parks Levy Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33850-K723008  
  
2000 Parks Levy - Development Opportunity Fund (33850-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2000 Parks Levy - Development Opportunity Fund Budget  
  
Control Level (BCL) is to provide funding to cover the costs of development  
  
activities as approved for the Opportunity Fund of the levy. This BCL is  
  
funded by the 2000 Parks Levy Fund dollars (Fund 33850).  
  
$1,000,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33860-K720010  
  
2008 Parks Levy- Neighborhood Park Acquisition (33860-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy- Neighborhood Park Acquisition Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to provide for neighborhood park acquisitions identified in  
  
the 2008 Parks Levy. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (33860).  
  
$2,275,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33860-K720011  
  
2008 Parks Levy- Green Space Acquisition (33860-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Green Space Acquisitions Budget  
  
Control Level (BCL) is to provide for green space park acquisitions  
  
identified in the 2008 Parks Levy. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy  
  
Fund (Fund 33860).  
  
$750,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33860-K720020  
  
2008 Parks Levy- Neighborhood Parks and Playgrounds (33860-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Neighborhood Parks and Playgrounds  
  
Budget Control Level (BCL) is to improve and address safety issues at  
  
playgrounds throughout the city identified in the 2008 Parks Levy. This BCL  
  
is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (33860).  
  
$7,031,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund  
  
City of Seattle Legislation  
### City of Seattle Legislative Information Service  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33860-K720021  
  
2008 Parks Levy- Cultural Facilities (33860-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Cultural Facilities Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to support the development or restoration of cultural  
  
facilities identified in the 2008 Parks Levy. This BCL is funded by the 2008  
  
Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33860).  
  
$4,521,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33860-K720023  
  
2008 Parks Levy- Major Parks (33860-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Major Parks Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to support the development or restoration of major neighborhood  
  
parks identified in the 2008 Parks Levy. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks  
  
Levy Fund (33860).  
  
$2,371,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33860-K720030  
  
2008 Parks Levy- Forest & Stream Restoration (33860-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Forest & Stream Restoration  
  
Budget Control Level (BCL) is to support the work of the Green Seattle  
  
Partnership in leveraging work of the Cascade Land Conservatory to  
  
re-establish healthy urban forests on City-owned property. This BCL is funded  
  
by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33860).  
  
$700,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33860-K720031  
  
2008 Parks Levy - P-Patch Development (33860-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - P-Patch Development Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to acquire and develop new community gardens or P-Patches on  
  
existing City-owned properties. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy  
  
Fund (Fund 33860).  
  
$500,000  
  
2008 Parks Levy Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
33860-K720032  
  
2008 Parks Levy- Shoreline Access (33860-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Shoreline Access Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to develop existing City-owned street ends to provide publicly  
  
accessible shoreline. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (Fund  
  
33860).  
  
$75,000  
  
McCaw Hall Capital Reserve  
  
Seattle Center  
  
34070-S0303  
  
McCaw Hall Maintenance Fund (34070-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the McCaw Hall Maintenance Fund Budget Control Level (BCL)  
  
is to develop an Asset Preservation Plan for McCaw Hall and fund capital  
  
investments in the facility. This BCL is supported by resources from the  
  
McCaw Hall Maintenance Fund (Fund 34070).  
  
$400,000  
  
2003 Fire Facilities Subfund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
34440-A1FL1  
  
Neighborhood Fire Stations (34440-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Neighborhood Fire Stations Budget Control Level (BCL)  
  
is to replace and renovate fire stations and other emergency response  
  
facilities as part of the Fire Facilities and Emergency Response Levy  
  
program. This BCL is funded by 2003 Fire Facilities Fund dollars (Fund  
  
34440).  
  
$5,874,000  
  
2007 Multipurpose LTGO Bond Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
DEBTISSUE  
  
Debt Issuance Costs  
  
The purpose of the Debt Issuance Costs Budget Control Level is to create  
  
the appropriation authority to pay debt issuance costs related to the 2011  
  
Multipurpose Limited Tax General Obligation (LTGO) Debt Issuance.  
  
$2,584,480  
  
2009 Multipurpose LTGO Bond Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
35300-K72444  
  
Building Component Renovations (35300-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Building Component Renovations Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to rehabilitate and replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and  
  
their components. This BCL is funded by 2009 Multipurpose LTGO Bond dollars  
  
(Fund 35300).  
  
$2,500,000  
  
2011 Multipurpose LTGO Bond Fund  
  
Seattle Center  
  
35500-S03P03  
  
Utility Infrastructure (35500-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Utility Infrastructure Budget Control Level (BCL) is to  
  
provide for repair, replacement and renovation of utilities at Seattle  
  
Center, including chilled water and steam lines, electrical equipment, and  
  
communication lines. This BCL is funded by Limited Tax General Obligation  
  
Bond moneys (Fund 35500).  
  
$510,000  
  
2011 Multipurpose LTGO Bond Fund  
  
Seattle Center  
  
35500-S9113  
  
Center House Rehabilitation (35500-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Center House Rehabilitation Budget Control Level (BCL)  
  
is to provide for major maintenance and improvements to the Center House at  
  
Seattle Center. This BCL is funded by Limited Tax General Obligation Bond  
  
moneys (Fund 35500).  
  
$3,400,000  
  
2011 Multipurpose LTGO Bond Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
35500-K72253  
  
Golf Projects (35500-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Golf Projects Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide  
  
for Golf related capital Projects. This BCL is funded by Limited Tax General  
  
Obligation Bond moneys (Fund 35500).  
  
$4,149,000  
  
2011 Multipurpose LTGO Bond Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
35500-K72444  
  
Building Component Renovations (35550-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Building Component Renovations Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to rehabilitate and replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and  
  
their components. This BCL is funded by Limited Tax General Obligation Bond  
  
moneys (Fund 35500).  
  
$4,978,000  
  
2011 Multipurpose LTGO Bond Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
35500-A1GM1  
  
General Government Facilities - General (35500-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the General Government Facilities - General Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to execute capital projects in general government facilities.  
  
This BCL is funded by Limited Tax General Obligation Bond moneys (Fund  
  
35500).  
  
$692,000  
  
2012 Multipurpose LTGO Bond Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
35600-K72444  
  
Building Component Renovations (35600-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Building Component Renovations Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to rehabilitate and replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and  
  
their components. This BCL is funded by Limited Tax General Obligation Bond  
  
moneys (Fund 35600).  
  
$13,326,000  
  
2013 Multipurpose LTGO Bond Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
35700-A1FL1  
  
Neighborhood Fire Stations (35700-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Neighborhood Fire Stations Budget Control Level (BCL)  
  
is to replace and renovate fire stations and other emergency response  
  
facilities as part of the Fire Facilities and Emergency Response Levy program.  
  
This BCL is funded by Limited Tax General Obligation Bond moneys (Fund  
  
35700).  
  
$10,251,000  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
SCL100  
  
Office of Superintendent  
  
The purpose of the Office of the Superintendent Budget Control Level is to  
  
assemble high-level staff to assure the effective delivery of reliable  
  
electric power in an environmentally sound manner, and enable the  
  
Superintendent to focus on the utility's broad departmental policy direction  
  
and leadership, its financial health, and stakeholder relations. The  
  
utility's communications and governmental affairs functions are included in  
  
this Budget Control Level.  
  
$2,876,578  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
SCL210  
  
Power Supply O&M  
  
The purpose of the Power Supply O&M Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
clean, safe, economic, efficient, reliable sources of electric power for City  
  
Light customers, and to provide support for the safe and efficient operation  
  
of the Utility.  
  
$63,200,413  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
SCL220  
  
Conservation Resources and Environmental Affairs O&M  
  
The purpose of the Conservation Resources and Environmental Affairs O&M  
  
Budget Control Level is to design and implement demand-side conservation  
  
measures that offset the need for additional generation resources to meet the  
  
utility's load; meet federal, state and local regulatory requirements for  
  
conservation and renewable resources; and to see that the utility generates  
  
and delivers energy in an environmentally responsible manner.  
  
$48,129,846  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
SCL250  
  
Power Supply & Environmental Affairs - CIP  
  
The purpose of the Power Supply & Environmental Affairs - CIP Budget  
  
Control Level is to provide for the capital costs of maintaining the physical  
  
generating plant to meet the electrical needs of City Light's customers. This  
  
Budget Control Level's capital program provides for the utility's physical  
  
plant and associated power license and regulatory requirements.  
  
$57,845,507  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
SCL310  
  
Distribution Services  
  
The purpose of the Distribution Services Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide reliable electricity to customers through cost-effective operation  
  
and maintenance of City Light's overhead and underground distribution  
  
systems, substations, and transmission systems.  
  
$68,103,313  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
SCL320  
  
Customer Services  
  
The purpose of the Customer Services Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
outstanding customer care and service through efficient, accurate metering  
  
and billing, and effective customer account management.  
  
$27,733,445  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
SCL350  
  
Customer Services and Energy Delivery - CIP  
  
The purpose of the Customer Services and Energy Delivery - CIP Budget  
  
Control Level is to provide for the capital costs of installation,  
  
maintenance, rehabilitation, and replacement of transmission lines,  
  
substations, distribution feeders, transformers, services connections, and  
  
meters to meet customer demand. This Budget Control Level's capital program  
  
also coordinates the utility's plant improvements with the efforts of other  
  
agencies involved in the implementation of large projects such as the Alaskan  
  
Way Viaduct and Seawall Replacement, North Downtown redevelopment, and Sound  
  
Transit light rail.  
  
$133,139,515  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
SCL400  
  
Human Resources  
  
The purpose of the Human Resources Budget Control Level is to help City  
  
Light be a safe, high performance organization through excellence in safety,  
  
organizational development and training, employee and management services,  
  
and labor relations.  
  
$6,837,070  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
SCL500  
  
Financial Services - O&M  
  
The purpose of the Financial Services - O&M Budget Control Level is to  
  
foster City Light's financial health through prudent planning, risk  
  
mitigation, and provision of information to drive financial discipline.  
  
Information Technology services are provided through this Budget Control  
  
Level to support systems and applications used throughout the utility. This  
  
Budget Control Level also supports the efforts and services provided by the  
  
Urban League's Contractor Development and Competitiveness Center for the  
  
development of small, economically-disadvantaged businesses, including women  
  
and minority firms, as authorized by Ordinance 120888.  
  
$34,981,446  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
SCL550  
  
Financial Services - CIP  
  
The purpose of the Financial Services - CIP Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide for the capital costs of rehabilitation and replacement of the  
  
utility's information technology infrastructure and to fund the development  
  
of large software applications.  
  
$6,461,855  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
SCL700  
  
Purchased Power  
  
The purpose of the Purchased Power Budget Control Level is to acquire  
  
power, transmission, and other services associated with wholesale power  
  
purchases in a cost-effective manner to meet the day-to-day electricity needs  
  
of City Light's retail customers.  
  
$338,995,283  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
SCL800  
  
General Expenses  
  
The purpose of the General Expenses Budget Control Level is to budget,  
  
track, and monitor the expenses of the utility that, for the most part, are  
  
not directly attributable to a specific organizational unit. These  
  
expenditures include insurance, bond issue costs, bond maintenance fees,  
  
audit costs, Law Department legal fees, external legal fees, employee  
  
benefits (medical and retirement costs), industrial insurance costs, general  
  
claims costs, and services provided by the City's internal services  
  
departments through the central cost allocation mechanism.  
  
$68,064,440  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
SCL810  
  
Debt Service  
  
The purpose of the Debt Service Budget Control Level is to meet principal  
  
repayment and interest obligations on funds borrowed to meet City Light's  
  
capital expenditure requirements.  
  
$142,658,754  
  
City Light Fund  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
SCL820  
  
Taxes  
  
The purpose of the Taxes Budget Control Level is to pay City Light's  
  
legally required tax payments for state, city, and local jurisdictions. This  
  
Budget Control Level includes funding for franchise contract payments  
  
negotiated with local jurisdictions in City Light's service territory.  
  
$74,139,040  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C110B  
  
Distribution  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Distribution Budget Control Level, a  
  
Capital Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to repair and  
  
upgrade the City's water lines, pump stations, and other facilities.  
  
$20,491,716  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C120B  
  
Transmission  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Transmission Budget Control Level, a  
  
Capital Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to repair and  
  
upgrade the City's large transmission pipelines that bring untreated water to  
  
the treatment facilities, and convey water from the treatment facilities to  
  
Seattle and its suburban wholesale customers' distribution systems.  
  
$1,688,100  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C130B  
  
Watershed Stewardship  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Watershed Stewardship Budget Control  
  
Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to  
  
implement projects associated with the natural land, forestry, and fishery  
  
resources within the Tolt, Cedar, and Lake Youngs watersheds.  
  
$1,141,554  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C140B  
  
Water Quality & Treatment  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Water Quality & Treatment Budget  
  
Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to  
  
design, construct, and repair water treatment facilities and remaining  
  
open-water reservoirs.  
  
$18,329,399  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C150B  
  
Water Resources  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Water Resources Budget Control Level, a  
  
Capital Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to manage untreated  
  
water to meet anticipated demands at our supply-reliability standard and  
  
instream flow requirement, and promote residential and commercial water  
  
conservation.  
  
$6,516,169  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C160B  
  
Habitat Conservation Program  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Habitat Conservation Budget Control  
  
Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to manage  
  
projects directly related to the Cedar River Watershed Habitat Conservation  
  
Plan.  
  
$11,122,687  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C410B-WU  
  
Shared Cost Projects  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Shared Cost Projects Budget Control  
  
Level, which is a Water Capital Improvement Program, is to implement the  
  
Water Utility's share of capital improvement projects that receive funding  
  
from multiple SPU funds.  
  
$15,047,995  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C510B-WU  
  
Technology  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Technology Budget Control Level, a  
  
Capital Improvement Program, is to make use of technology to increase the  
  
Water Utility's efficiency and productivity.  
  
$4,770,105  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
N000B-WU  
  
General Expense  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility General Expense Budget Control Level is  
  
to appropriate funds to pay the Water Utility's general expenses.  
  
$134,771,812  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
N100B-WU  
  
Administration  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Administration Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide overall management and policy direction for Seattle Public Utilities,  
  
and, more specifically, for the Water Utility, and to provide core financial,  
  
human resource, and information technology services to the entire Department.  
  
This BCL also supports the efforts and services provided by the Urban  
  
League's Contractor Development and Competitiveness Center (CDCC) for the  
  
development of small, economically disadvantaged businesses, including women-  
  
and minority-owned firms, as authorized by Ordinance 120888.  
  
$4,137,305  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
N300B-WU  
  
Customer Service  
  
The purpose of the Water Utility Customer Service Budget Control Level is  
  
to provide customer service in the direct delivery of essential programs and  
  
services that anticipate and respond to customer expectations.  
  
$10,221,542  
  
Water Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
N400B-WU  
  
Other Operating  
  
The purpose of the Other Operating Budget Control Level is to fund the  
  
Water Utility's operating expenses for Engineering Services, Field  
  
Operations, Pre-Capital Planning & Development, and Utility Systems  
  
Management programs.  
  
$47,068,454  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C333B  
  
Protection of Beneficial Uses  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Protection of  
  
Beneficial Uses Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by  
  
drainage revenues, is to make improvements to the City's drainage system to  
  
reduce the harmful effects of stormwater runoff on creeks and receiving  
  
waters by improving water quality and protecting or enhancing habitat.  
  
$2,283,081  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C350B  
  
Sediments  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Sediments Budget  
  
Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by drainage and  
  
wastewater revenues, is to restore and rehabilitate natural resources in or  
  
along Seattle's waterways.  
  
$6,350,146  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C360  
  
Combined Sewer Overflows  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Combined Sewer Overflow  
  
(CSO) Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by drainage  
  
and wastewater revenues, is to plan and construct large infrastructure  
  
systems, smaller retrofits, and green infrastructure for CSO control.  
  
$17,806,875  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C370  
  
Rehabilitation  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Rehabilitation Budget  
  
Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by drainage and  
  
wastewater revenues, is to rehabilitate or replace existing drainage and  
  
wastewater assets in kind, to maintain the current functionality of the  
  
system.  
  
$6,471,519  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C380  
  
Flooding, Sewer Back-up, and Landslides  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Flooding, Sewer  
  
Back-up, and Landslides Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program  
  
funded by drainage and wastewater revenues, is to plan, design and construct  
  
systems aimed at preventing or alleviating flooding and sewer backups in the  
  
City of Seattle, protecting public health, safety, and property. This program  
  
also protects SPU drainage and wastewater infrastructure from landslides, and  
  
makes drainage improvements where surface water generated from the City  
  
right-of-way contributes to landslides.  
  
$35,069,776  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C410B-DW  
  
Shared Cost Projects  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Shared Cost Projects  
  
Budget Control Level, a Drainage and Wastewater Capital Improvement Program,  
  
is to implement the Drainage and Wastewater Utility's share of capital  
  
improvement projects that receive funding from multiple SPU funds benefiting  
  
the Utility.  
  
$11,804,290  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C510B-DW  
  
Technology  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Technology Budget  
  
Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program, is to make use of recent  
  
technology advances to increase the Drainage and Wastewater Utility's  
  
efficiency and productivity.  
  
$4,062,403  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
N000B-DW  
  
General Expense  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility General Expense Budget  
  
Control Level is to appropriate funds to pay the Drainage and Wastewater  
  
Utility's general expenses.  
  
$215,410,962  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
N100B-DW  
  
Administration  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Administration Budget  
  
Control Level is to provide overall management and policy direction for  
  
Seattle Public Utilities and, more specifically, for the Drainage and  
  
Wastewater Utility, and to provide core financial, human resource, and  
  
information technology services to the entire Department. This BCL also  
  
supports the efforts and services provided by the Urban League's Contractor  
  
Development and Competitiveness Center (CDCC) for the development of small,  
  
economically disadvantaged businesses, including women- and minority-owned  
  
firms, as authorized by Ordinance 120888.  
  
$3,102,303  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
N300B-DW  
  
Customer Service  
  
The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility Customer Service Budget  
  
Control Level is to provide customer service in the direct delivery of  
  
essential programs and services that anticipate and respond to customer  
  
expectations.  
  
$7,089,545  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
N400B-DW  
  
Other Operating  
  
The purpose of the Other Operating Budget Control Level is to fund the  
  
Drainage and Wastewater Utility's operating expenses for Engineering  
  
Services, Field Operations, Pre-Capital Planning & Development, and  
  
Utility Systems Management programs.  
  
$49,113,240  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C230B  
  
New Facilities  
  
The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility New Facilities Budget Control  
  
Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by solid waste revenues, is to  
  
design and construct new facilities to enhance solid waste operations.  
  
$25,710,121  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C240B  
  
Rehabilitation and Heavy Equipment  
  
The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Rehabilitation and Heavy Equipment  
  
Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by solid waste  
  
revenues, is to implement projects to repair and rehabilitate the City's  
  
solid waste transfer stations and improve management of the City's closed  
  
landfills and household hazardous waste sites.  
  
$262,140  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C410B-SW  
  
Shared Cost Projects  
  
The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Shared Cost Projects Budget Control  
  
Level, a Solid Waste Capital Improvement Program, is to implement the Solid  
  
Waste Utility's share of capital improvement projects that receive funding  
  
from multiple SPU funds and will benefit the Solid Waste Fund.  
  
$1,860,260  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
C510B-SW  
  
Technology  
  
The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Technology Budget Control Level, a  
  
Capital Improvement Program, is to make use of technology to increase the  
  
Solid Waste Utility's efficiency and productivity.  
  
$1,415,282  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
N000B-SW  
  
General Expense  
  
The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility General Expense Budget Control  
  
Level is to provide appropriation to pay the Solid Waste Utility's general  
  
expenses.  
  
$125,940,398  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
N100B-SW  
  
Administration  
  
The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Administration Budget Control Level  
  
is to provide overall management and policy direction for Seattle Public  
  
Utilities, and, more specifically, for the Solid Waste Utility, and to  
  
provide core financial, human resource, and information technology services  
  
to the entire Department. This BCL also supports the efforts and services  
  
provided by the Urban League's Contractor Development and Competitiveness  
  
Center (CDCC) for the development of small, economically disadvantaged  
  
businesses, including women- and minority-owned firms, as authorized by  
  
Ordinance 120888.  
  
$5,163,406  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
N300B-SW  
  
Customer Service  
  
The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Customer Service Budget Control  
  
Level is to provide customer service in the direct delivery of essential  
  
programs and services that anticipate and respond to customer expectations.  
  
$12,871,098  
  
Solid Waste Fund  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
N400B-SW  
  
Other Operating  
  
The purpose of the Other Operating Budget Control Level is to fund the  
  
Solid Waste Utility's operating expenses for Engineering Services, Field  
  
Operations, Pre-Capital Planning & Development, and Utility Systems  
  
Management programs.  
  
$15,808,315  
  
Parking Garage Operations Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
46011  
  
Pacific Place Garage  
  
The purpose of the Pacific Place Garage Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
appropriation authority for the City's expenses to operate the Pacific Place  
  
Garage, which is located between Sixth and Seventh Avenues and Pine and Olive  
  
Streets in downtown Seattle. The City took over responsibility for the Garage  
  
in November 1998.  
  
$7,841,895  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
50300-A1GM1  
  
General Government Facilities - General (50300-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the General Government Facilities - General Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to execute capital projects in general government facilities.  
  
This BCL is funded by Fleets and Facilities Fund dollars (Fund 50300).  
  
$3,500,000  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
A1000  
  
Budget and Central Services  
  
The purpose of the Budget and Central Services Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide executive leadership and a range of planning and support functions,  
  
including policy and strategic analysis, budget development and monitoring,  
  
financial analysis and reporting, accounting services, information technology  
  
services, human resource services, office administration, and central departmental  
  
services such as contract review and legislative coordination. These  
  
functions promote solid business systems, optimal resource allocation, and  
  
compliance with Citywide financial, technology, and personnel policies.  
  
$5,571,564  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
A2000  
  
Fleet Services  
  
The purpose of the Fleet Services Budget Control Level is to provide fleet  
  
vehicles to City departments; assess and implement environmental initiatives  
  
related to both the composition of the City's fleet and the fuels that power  
  
it; actively manage and maintain the fleet; procure and distribute fuel; and  
  
operate a centralized motor pool. The goal of these functions is to create and  
  
support an environmentally responsible and cost-effective Citywide fleet that  
  
helps all City departments carry out their work as efficiently as possible.  
  
$39,723,184  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
A3000  
  
Facility Services  
  
The purpose of the Facility Services Budget Control Level is to manage  
  
most of the City's general government facilities, including the downtown  
  
civic campus, police precincts, fire stations, shops and yards, and several  
  
parking facilities. Functions include property management, environmental  
  
analysis, implementation of environmentally sustainable facility investments,  
  
facility maintenance and repair, janitorial services, security services, and  
  
event scheduling. The Facility Operations team is also responsible for  
  
warehouse, real estate, and mail services throughout the City. These  
  
functions promote well-managed, clean, safe, and highly efficient buildings  
  
and grounds that house City employees and serve the public.  
  
$65,355,413  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
A3100  
  
Technical Services  
  
The purpose of the Technical Services Budget Control Level is to plan and  
  
administer FFD's Capital Improvement Program. This division attempts to  
  
ensure that the City develops high-quality and environmentally sustainable  
  
capital facilities for City staff and functions.  
  
$2,854,957  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
A4000  
  
Judgment and Claims  
  
The Judgment and Claims Budget Control Level pays for judgments,  
  
settlements, claims, and other eligible expenses associated with legal claims  
  
and suits against the City. Premiums are based on average percentage of  
  
Judgment/Claims expenses incurred by the Department over the previous five  
  
years.  
  
$361,975  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
A4510  
  
Financial Services  
  
The purpose of the Financial Services Budget Control Level (BCL) is to  
  
oversee and provide technical support to the financial affairs of the City.  
  
This BCL performs a wide range of technical and operating functions, such as  
  
economic and fiscal forecasting, debt issuance and management, Citywide  
  
payroll processing, investments management, and revenue and payment  
  
processing services. In addition, this BCL develops and implements a variety  
  
of City financial policies including policies for City revenues, accounting  
  
procedures, and risk mitigation. Finally, the CBL provides oversight and  
  
guidance to financial reporting, City retirement programs, and public  
  
corporation established by the City.  
  
$9,858,485  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
A4520  
  
Business Technology  
  
The purpose of the Business Technology Budget Control Level is to plan,  
  
strategize, develop, implement, and maintain information technologies to  
  
support the City's business activities.  
  
$8,106,289  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
A4530  
  
Revenue and Consumer Protection  
  
The purpose of the Revenue and Consumer Protection Budget Control Level is  
  
to provide regulatory and consumer protection services, license businesses  
  
and collect business-related taxes.  
  
$4,998,318  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
A4540  
  
City Purchasing and Contracting Services  
  
The purpose of the City Purchasing and Contracting Services Budget Control  
  
Level is to conduct and administer all bids and contracts for Public Works  
  
and purchases (products, supplies, equipment and services) on behalf of City  
  
departments. These work groups conduct the bid process, execute and manage  
  
resultant contracts, develop and administer City policy and guidelines, and  
  
implement State law and City code. Consultant contract rules, policies and  
  
guidelines are also centrally established by these work groups. These work  
  
groups develop and implement the City social responsibility policies and  
  
requirements, including women and minority business, environmental  
  
purchasing, and prevailing wages. The work groups provide fair, thorough, and  
  
responsive service to customers to ensure acquisitions are competitively  
  
acquired, timely and compliant to all law. In addition, this program supports  
  
the efforts and services provided by the Urban League's Contractor  
  
Development and Competitiveness Center (CDCC) for the development of small,  
  
economically disadvantaged businesses, including women and minority firms, as  
  
authorized by Ordinance 120888.  
  
$3,017,925  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
A5510  
  
Seattle Animal Shelter  
  
The purpose of the Seattle Animal Shelter Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide animal care, enforcement, and spay and neuter services in Seattle to  
  
control pet overpopulation and foster public safety. The Shelter also  
  
provides volunteer and foster care programs which enables the citizens of  
  
Seattle to donate both time and resources and engage in activities which  
  
promotes animal welfare in Seattle.  
  
$3,004,881  
  
Finance and Administrative Services Fund  
  
Department of Finance and Administrative Services  
  
A6510  
  
Office of Constituent Services  
  
The purpose of the Office of Constituent Services Budget Control Level  
  
(BCL) is to lead City departments to consistently provide services that are  
  
easily accessible, responsive, and fair. This includes assistance with a  
  
broad range of City services, such as transactions, information requests, and  
  
complaint investigations. This BCL includes the City's Customer Service  
  
Bureau, Citywide public disclosure responsibilities, and service-delivery  
  
analysts.  
  
$1,149,727  
  
Information Technology Fund  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
D1100  
  
Finance and Administration  
  
The purpose of the Finance and Administration Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide human resources, contracting, finance, budget, and accounting  
  
services (planning, control, analysis, and consulting) to the Department.  
  
$6,020,268  
  
Information Technology Fund  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
D2200  
  
Technology Leadership and Governance  
  
The purpose of the Technology Leadership and Governance Budget Control  
  
Level is to provide departments with strategic direction and coordination on  
  
technology for their respective investment decisions.  
  
$2,144,343  
  
Information Technology Fund  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
D3300  
  
Technology Infrastructure  
  
The purpose of the Technology Infrastructure Budget Control Level is to  
  
build and operate the City's corporate communications and computing assets so  
  
that the City can manage information more effectively, deliver services more  
  
efficiently, and make well-informed decisions.  
  
$34,306,304  
  
Information Technology Fund  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
D4400  
  
Office of Electronic Communications  
  
The purpose of the Office of Electronic Communications Budget Control  
  
Level is to operate the Seattle Channel, Cable Office, Web sites, and related  
  
programs so that technology delivers services and information to residents,  
  
businesses, visitors, and employees in an effective way.  
  
$6,446,815  
  
Employees' Retirement System Fund  
  
Employees' Retirement System  
  
R1E10  
  
Employees' Retirement  
  
The purpose of the Employees' Retirement Budget Control Level is to manage  
  
and administer retirement assets and benefits.  
  
$11,759,692  
  
Firefighters Pension Fund  
  
Firefighters Pension  
  
R2F01  
  
Firefighters Pension  
  
The purpose of the Firefighters Pension Budget Control Level is to provide  
  
benefit services to eligible active and retired firefighters and their lawful  
  
beneficiaries.  
  
$20,143,053  
  
Police Relief and Pension Fund  
  
Police Relief and Pension  
  
RP604  
  
Police Relief and Pension  
  
The purpose of the Police Relief and Pension Budget Control Level is to  
  
provide responsive benefit services to eligible active-duty and retired  
  
Seattle police officers.  
  
$23,028,000  
  
Beach Maintenance Trust Fund  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
61500-K72447  
  
Docks/Piers/Floats/ Seawalls/Shorelines (61500-CIP)  
  
The purpose of the Docks/Piers/Floats/Seawalls/Shorelines Budget Control  
  
Level (BCL) is to provide for the rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and  
  
Recreation's docks, piers, floats, seawalls and shorelines. This BCL is  
  
funded by Beach Maintenance Trust Fund dollars (Fund 61500).  
  
$25,000  
  
Municipal Arts Fund  
  
Executive  
  
2VMAO  
  
Municipal Arts Fund  
  
The purpose of the Municipal Arts Fund Budget Control Level (BCL) is to  
  
fund the Public Art program which develops engaging art pieces and programs  
  
for City facilities, and maintains the City's existing art collection. The  
  
BCL appropriates revenues from the Municipal Arts Fund (MAF), of which most  
  
come from the City's One Percent for Art program, a program that invests one  
  
percent of eligible capital funds in public art.  
  
$2,693,359  
  
Position Modifications for the 2011 Budget  
  
The following is the list of position modifications for the 2011 Budget that take effect January 4, 2011. The modifications result from budget actions that reclassify positions, abrogate positions, create new positions, transfer existing positions between City departments, or change the status of a position, e.g., from full-time to part-time status. Numbers in parentheses are reductions. The figures in the column labeled "Number" represent net position adjustments as a result of changes contained in the 2011 Budget.  
  
Julie Johnson / Martha Lester / Kieu-Anh King CBO 2011 Budget Adoption ATT B 20 November 2010 Version \#3  
  
**Dept Name**  
  
**Position Title**  
  
**Position Status**  
  
**Number **  
  
City Budget Office  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
**City Budget Office Total**  
  
**(1)**  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Info Technol Prof B  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Info Technol Prof B  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Info Technol Prof C  
  
FullTime  
  
(3)  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Info Technol Prof C  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Info Technol Systs Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Info Technol Systs Anlyst  
  
PartTime  
  
-  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Manager3,Info Technol  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Marketing Dev Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
StratAdvsr2,PC&RM  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Warehouser,Chief  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Information Technology  
  
Warehouser-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
**Department of Information Technology Total**  
  
**(9)**  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Com Dev Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Cust Svc Rep  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Neighb District Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Neighb District Coord Supv  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
Plng&Dev Spec I  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
StratAdvsr1,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Neighborhoods  
  
StratAdvsr2,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
**Department of Neighborhoods Total**  
  
**(6)**  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Actg Tech II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Admin Spec I-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Admin Spec III-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Admin Spec III-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Apprentice  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Aquarium Biologist 1  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Aquarium Biologist 2  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Aquarium Guide  
  
PartTime  
  
(2)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Aquarium Systs Op  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Aquarium Systs Op,Chief  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Aquatic Cntr Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Aquatic Cntr Coord  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Aquatic Cntr Coord,Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Arboriculturist  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Capital Prjts Coord  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Capital Prjts Coord Supv  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Cashier  
  
PartTime  
  
(2)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Delivery Wkr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Delivery Wkr  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Drainage&Wstwtr Coll Wkr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Economist,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Ed Prgm Asst  
  
PartTime  
  
(3)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Events Svc Rep,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Exhibits Tech  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Facilities Maint Wkr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Forest Maint CC  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Gardener  
  
FullTime  
  
(4)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Gardener  
  
PartTime  
  
2  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Gardener,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Grounds Maint Lead Wkr  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Heating Plnt Tech  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Info Technol Prof B  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Info Technol Prof B  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Installation Maint Wkr  
  
FullTime  
  
11  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Laborer  
  
FullTime  
  
(21)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Laborer  
  
PartTime  
  
8  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Lifeguard  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Lifeguard,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
(3)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Maint Laborer  
  
FullTime  
  
2  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Maint Laborer  
  
PartTime  
  
2  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Manager1,Parks&Rec  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Manager2,Parks&Rec  
  
FullTime  
  
(4)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Metal Fabricator  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Naturalist  
  
FullTime  
  
(6)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Naturalist  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Parks Concss Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Parks Concss Coord  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Parks Special Events Schedlr  
  
FullTime  
  
(3)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Parks Special Events Schedlr  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Personnel Spec  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Personnel Spec  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Personnel Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Plng&Dev Spec II  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Pntr  
  
FullTime  
  
(4)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Pool Maint Wkr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Publc Ed Prgm Spec  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Publc Ed Prgm Spec  
  
PartTime  
  
(2)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Real Property Agent,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
-  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Attendant  
  
FullTime  
  
(5)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Attendant  
  
PartTime  
  
-  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Cntr Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
(5)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Cntr Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Cntr Coord,Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
(5)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Cntr Coord,Asst  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Leader  
  
FullTime  
  
(4)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Leader  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Leader  
  
PartTime  
  
-  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Leader  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Prgm Coord,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Rec Prgm Spec  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Seattle Conserv Corps Supv  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Sfty&Hlth Spec  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Sfty&Hlth Spec  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
StratAdvsr1,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
StratAdvsr1,General Govt  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
StratAdvsr1,P&FM  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
StratAdvsr1,Parks&Rec  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
StratAdvsr1,Parks&Rec  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
StratAdvsr2,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
StratAdvsr3,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Tree Trimmer  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Tree Trimmer,Lead  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Truck Drvr  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Truck Drvr,Heavy  
  
FullTime  
  
2  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Util Laborer  
  
FullTime  
  
(40)  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Util Laborer  
  
PartTime  
  
17  
  
Department of Parks and Recreation  
  
Volunteer Prgms Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
**Department of Parks and Recreation Total**  
  
**(102)**  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Admin Spec III-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Code Compliance Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Code Compliance Anlyst  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Elecl Inspector,Sr(Expert)  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Graphic Arts Designer  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Housing Ordinance Spec  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Housing/Zoning Inspector  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Housing/Zoning Inspector  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Housing/Zoning Inspector Supv  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Info Technol Techl Support  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Land Use Plnr III  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Land Use Plnr IV  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Land Use Plnr IV  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Manager3,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Plng&Dev Spec II  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Plng&Dev Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
Plng&Dev Spec,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Department of Planning and Development  
  
StratAdvsr2,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
**Department of Planning and Development Total**  
  
**(11)**  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Accountant  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Accountant,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Actg Tech II  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Admin Spec I-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Animal Contrl Ofcr I  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Animal Contrl Ofcr I  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Animal Contrl Ofcr II  
  
FullTime  
  
(3)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Auto Mechanic  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Auto Mechanic Aprn  
  
FullTime  
  
(4)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Buyer  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Carpenter  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Delivery Wkr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Executive1  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Executive2  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Fin Anlyst,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Info Technol Prof B-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Info Technol Prof C-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Janitor-FFD/CL  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Licenses&Standards Inspector  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Manager1,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Manager1,General Govt  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Manager1,P&FM  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Manager2,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Manager3,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Manager3,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Personnel Spec,Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Pntr  
  
FullTime  
  
(4)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Remittance Proc Tech  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
StratAdvsr1,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
StratAdvsr1,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
StratAdvsr1,General Govt  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
2  
  
Finance and Administrative Services  
  
Tax Auditor  
  
FullTime  
  
2  
  
**Finance and Administrative Services Total**  
  
**(32)**  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Admin Spec I-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Grants&Contracts Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Grants&Contracts Spec,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Manager2,Info Technol  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Manager3,Info Technol  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Personnel Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Personnel Spec,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Plng&Dev Spec,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
StratAdvsr1,Human Svcs  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
StratAdvsr1,Human Svcs  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Human Services Department  
  
StratAdvsr1,Info Technol  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
StratAdvsr2,Human Svcs  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Human Services Department  
  
Volunteer Prgms Coord  
  
PartTime  
  
-  
  
**Human Services Department Total**  
  
**(5)**  
  
Law Department  
  
Admin Spec I  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Law Department  
  
City Attorney,Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Law Department  
  
City Attorney,Asst  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Law Department  
  
City Attorney,Asst,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Law Department  
  
Legal Asst  
  
PartTime  
  
-  
  
Law Department  
  
Paralegal  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Law Department  
  
StratAdvsr1,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
**Law Department Total**  
  
**(1)**  
  
Legislative Department  
  
Admin Spec II  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Legislative Department  
  
Exec Manager-Legislative  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Legislative Department  
  
StratAdvsr-Legislative  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
**Legislative Department Total**  
  
**(3)**  
  
Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs  
  
Admin Secretary  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs  
  
Admin Spec I  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs  
  
Admin Spec I  
  
PartTime  
  
-  
  
Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs  
  
Events Booking Rep  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs  
  
Events Booking Rep  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
**Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs Total**  
  
**(2)**  
  
Office of Economic Development  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Office of Economic Development  
  
Executive2  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Office of Economic Development  
  
StratAdvsr2,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
**Office of Economic Development Total**  
  
**1 **  
  
Office of Housing  
  
Com Dev Spec  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Office of Housing  
  
Com Dev Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Office of Housing  
  
Info Technol Spec  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Office of Housing  
  
Manager3,Human Svcs  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Office of Housing  
  
StratAdvsr2,Human Svcs  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
**Office of Housing Total**  
  
**(2)**  
  
Office of Intergovernmental Relations  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
**Office of Intergovernmental Relations Total**  
  
**- **  
  
Office of Sustainability and Environment  
  
StratAdvsr2,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
**Office of Sustainability and Environment Total**  
  
**(1)**  
  
Office of the Mayor  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
**Office of the Mayor Total**  
  
**(1)**  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Actg Tech II  
  
PartTime  
  
-  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Admin Spec I  
  
FullTime  
  
(3)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Admin Spec II  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Admin Spec II  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Admin Staff Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Dispute Resolution Mediator  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Dispute Resolution Mediator  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Executive2  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Labor Relations Spec  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Personnel Anlyst Supv-Comp  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Personnel Anlyst,Sr-Comp  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Personnel Anlyst,Sr-Comp  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Plng&Dev Spec,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Sfty/Ocuptnl Hlth Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
StratAdvsr1,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Personnel Department  
  
StratAdvsr1,General Govt  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Workers' Comp Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Personnel Department  
  
Workers' Comp Supv  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
**Personnel Department Total**  
  
**(8)**  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Actg Tech II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Actg Tech II-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(3)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
2  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Elctn  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Events Svc Rep,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Events Svc Rep,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Executive1  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Fin Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Fin Anlyst  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Janitor-SC/Parks/SPU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Laborer  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Lock Tech  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Lock Tech  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Manager2,CSPI&P  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Personnel Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Pntr  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Center  
  
Stage Tech,Lead  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
**Seattle Center Total**  
  
**(10)**  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Actg Tech III-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Admin Spec III-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Capital Prjts Coord,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
4  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Carpenter CC  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Cblspl-Net Area  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Civil Engr,Assoc  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Civil Engr,Asst III  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Civil Engr,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Economist  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Economist,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Elctn-Con  
  
FullTime  
  
(3)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Elecl Engr,Assoc  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Elecl Engrng Spec,Assoc  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Elecl Pwr Systs Engr  
  
FullTime  
  
6  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Elecl Pwr Systs Engr,Prin  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Elecl Svc Engr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Enrgy Mgmt Anlyst,Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Enrgy Plng Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Enrgy Res&Eval Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Envrnmtl Anlyst,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Equip Svcr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Executive2  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
HVAC Tech  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Hydro Maint Wkr I-Gen  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Hydroelec Maint Mach  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Info Technol Prof A,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Info Technol Prof B-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(3)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Lnwkr  
  
FullTime  
  
(4)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Manager2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Manager2,Info Technol  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Manager2,Utils  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Manager3,Utils  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Marketing Dev Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Mat Controller Supv  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Mech Engr,Assoc  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Mech Engr,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Meter Elctn  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
2  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Plng&Dev Spec II  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Prot&Cntrl Elctn II  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Pwr Dispatcher,Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Pwr Marketer  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Store Clerk  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
StratAdvsr1,CSPI&P  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
StratAdvsr1,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
StratAdvsr2,Info Technol  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
StratAdvsr2,Utils  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
StratAdvsr3,Utils  
  
FullTime  
  
(3)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Truck Drvr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle City Light  
  
Truck Drvr,Heavy  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
**Seattle City Light Total**  
  
**(31)**  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Admin Spec III-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Capital Prjts Coord,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Cement Finisher  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Civil Engr,Assoc  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Civil Engrng Spec,Assoc  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Civil Engrng Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Fin Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Info Technol Prof B-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Maint Laborer  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Manager1,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Manager2,Engrng&Plans Rev  
  
FullTime  
  
(5)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Manager3,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Mat Controller  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Overhead Elecl Suplr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Parking Pay Stat Tech  
  
FullTime  
  
3  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Personnel Spec  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Personnel Spec  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Signal Elctn V  
  
FullTime  
  
(4)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Signal Elctn V  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
StratAdvsr1,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
StratAdvsr1,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
StratAdvsr2,Engrng&Plans Rev  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
StratAdvsr2,General Govt  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
StratAdvsr3,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Traffic Marking Lead Wkr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Transp Plnr,Assoc  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Transp Plnr,Assoc  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Department of Transportation  
  
Transp Plnr,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
2  
  
**Seattle Department of Transportation Total**  
  
**(26)**  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
Admin Support Supv-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
Fire Capt-80 Hrs  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
Fire Chief,Dep-80 Hrs  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
Fire Lieut-Prev Inspector I  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
Fireftr-Prev Insp I  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Fire Department  
  
StratAdvsr3,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
**Seattle Fire Department Total**  
  
**(4)**  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
Actg Tech II-MC  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
Admin Spec II  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
Admin Spec I-MC  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
Admin Spec I-MC  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
Bailiff  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
Court Clerk  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
Court Commissioner  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
Magistrate  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
Magistrate  
  
PartTime  
  
-  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
Muni Judge  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
Prob Counslr II  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Seattle Municipal Court  
  
Prob Counslr-Asg Pers Recog  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
**Seattle Municipal Court Total**  
  
**(8)**  
  
Seattle Office for Civil Rights  
  
Manager2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Office for Civil Rights  
  
Paralegal  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Office for Civil Rights  
  
Plng&Dev Spec I  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Seattle Office for Civil Rights  
  
Plng&Dev Spec I  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Office for Civil Rights  
  
Plng&Dev Spec II  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Office for Civil Rights  
  
Plng&Dev Spec,Supvsng  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
**Seattle Office for Civil Rights Total**  
  
**(1)**  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Actg Tech III-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Admin Staff Asst  
  
PartTime  
  
2  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
IT Prgmmer Anlyst-Spec  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Maint Laborer  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Manager1,CL&PS  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Manager1,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Manager3,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Parking Enf Ofcr  
  
FullTime  
  
6  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Parking Enf Ofcr Supv  
  
FullTime  
  
4  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Pol Capt  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Pol Comms Dir  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Pol Lieut  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Pol Ofcr-Detective  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Pol Ofcr-Harbor/Mounted  
  
FullTime  
  
(3)  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Pol Ofcr-Patrl  
  
FullTime  
  
17  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Pol Sgt-Harbor/Mounted  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Pol Sgt-Patrl  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
StratAdvsr2,CL&PS  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
StratAdvsr2,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Police Department  
  
Transp Plnr,Assoc  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
**Seattle Police Department Total**  
  
**16 **  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Admin Spec I-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Admin Spec II-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Admin Spec III-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Capital Prjts Coord  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Civil Engr,Assoc  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Civil Engr,Asst II  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Civil Engr,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
3  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Civil Engrng Spec Supv  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Civil Engrng Spec,Assoc  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Civil Engrng Spec,Asst I  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Civil Engrng Spec,Asst I  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Constr&Maint Equip Op,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Economist,Prin  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Economist,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Envrnmtl Anlyst,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Envrnmtl Anlyst,Sr  
  
PartTime  
  
(3)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Info Technol Prof A,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Info Technol Prof B-BU  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Info Technol Prof B-BU  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Info Technol Systs Anlyst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Info Technol Systs Anlyst  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Manager1,Fin,Bud,&Actg  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Manager1,Utils  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Manager2,Fin,Bud,&Actg  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Manager2,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Manager2,Utils  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Manager3,Engrng&Plans Rev  
  
FullTime  
  
(2)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Manager3,Exempt  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Manager3,Utils  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Ofc/Maint Aide  
  
PartTime  
  
-  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Personnel Spec  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Personnel Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Plng&Dev Spec II  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Plng&Dev Spec II  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Plng&Dev Spec,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
-  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Publc Ed Prgm Spec  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Res&Eval Asst  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Res&Eval Asst  
  
PartTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Solid Wst Fld Rep I  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Solid Wst Fld Rep,Lead  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
StratAdvsr1,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
StratAdvsr1,General Govt  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
StratAdvsr1,Utils  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
StratAdvsr2,Fin,Bud,&Actg  
  
FullTime  
  
(3)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
StratAdvsr2,General Govt  
  
FullTime  
  
1  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
StratAdvsr2,Info Technol  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
StratAdvsr2,Utils  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Util Act Rep I  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Util Act Rep I  
  
PartTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Util Svc Inspector  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Wtr Quality Engr,Sr  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
Seattle Public Utilities  
  
Wtrshed Inspector  
  
FullTime  
  
(1)  
  
**Seattle Public Utilities Total**  
  
**(31)**  
  
**Grand Total**  
  
**(278)**  
  
  
