* * * * *  
  
**Council Bill Number: [](#h0)[](#h2)115405**  
  
* * * * *  
  
AN ORDINANCE related to land use and zoning, amending 23.60.246, 23.60.306, 23.60.365, 23.60.368, 23.60.424, 23.60.426, 23.60.430, 23.60.484, 23.60.486, 23.60.488, 23.60.544, 23.60.600, 23.60.604, 23.60.606, 23.60.608, 23.60.636, 23.60.660, 23.60.664, 23.60.668, 23.60.670, 23.60.720, 23.60.724, 23.60.728, 23.60.730, 23.60.780, 23.60.786, 23.60.788, 23.60.840, 23.60.844, 23.60.848, 23.60.850, 23.60.900, 23.60.902, 23.60.906, 23.60.908, 23.60.918, 23.60.926, 23.60.934, 23.60.936, 23.60.938, 23.60.940 of the Shoreline District Chapter of the Land Use Code (Title 23) and repealing Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 23.84, in order to maintain consistency between the shoreline regulations and other sections of the Code.  
  
**Status:** Retired March 26, 2007   
  
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 26, 2005   
**Committee:** Urban Development & Planning   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK   
  
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, LAND-USE-PLANNING, SHORELANDS  
  
**References/Related Documents:** Related to: Neighborhood Business District Strategy  
  
**Fiscal Note:** [Fiscal Note to Council Bill](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/fnote/115405.htm)[](#h1)[](#h3)115405  
  
* * * * *  
  
**Text**  
    ORDINANCE _________________  
  
    AN ORDINANCE related to land use and zoning, amending 23.60.246,  
    23.60.306, 23.60.365, 23.60.368, 23.60.424, 23.60.426, 23.60.430,  
    23.60.484, 23.60.486, 23.60.488, 23.60.544, 23.60.600, 23.60.604,  
    23.60.606, 23.60.608, 23.60.636, 23.60.660, 23.60.664, 23.60.668,  
    23.60.670, 23.60.720, 23.60.724, 23.60.728, 23.60.730, 23.60.780,  
    23.60.786, 23.60.788, 23.60.840, 23.60.844, 23.60.848, 23.60.850,  
    23.60.900, 23.60.902, 23.60.906, 23.60.908, 23.60.918, 23.60.926,  
    23.60.934, 23.60.936, 23.60.938, 23.60.940 of the Shoreline District  
    Chapter of the Land Use Code (Title 23) and repealing Seattle  
    Municipal Code Chapter 23.84, in order to maintain consistency  
    between the shoreline regulations and other sections of the Code.  
  
    BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:  
  
          Section 1.  Section 23.60.246 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118663, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.246  Prohibited uses in the CN Environment.  
  
          The following uses shall be prohibited as principal or  
    accessory uses in the CN Environment:  
  
          A.  Residential uses;  
  
          B.  Commercial uses;  
  
          C.  Utilities, except utility lines;  
  
          D.  Salvage and recycling uses;  
  
          ED.  Manufacturing uses;  
  
          FE.  High-impact uses;  
  
          GF.  Institutional uses;  
  
          HG.  Public facilities not authorized by Section  
    23.60.248;  
  
          IH.  All shoreline recreation uses except  
    underwater diving areas and reefs;  
  
          JI.  Agricultural uses except aquaculture;  
  
          KJ.  Groins and similar structures which block the  
    flow of sand to adjacent beaches, except drift sills or other  
    structures which are part of a natural beach protection system; and  
  
          LK.  Landfill which creates dry land, except for  
    wildlife habitat mitigation or enhancement.  
  
          Section 2.  Section 23.60.306 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118663, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.306  Prohibited uses in the CP Environment.  
  
          The following uses shall be prohibited as principal or  
    accessory uses in the CP Environment:  
  
          A.  Residential uses;  
  
          B.  Commercial uses including accessory parking;  
  
          C.  Utility uses, except utility lines;  
  
          D.  Salvage and recycling uses;  
  
          ED.  Manufacturing uses;  
  
          FE.  High-impact uses;  
  
          GF.  Institutional uses except permitted shoreline  
    recreational uses;  
  
          HG.  Public facilities not authorized by Section  
    23.60.308;  
  
          IH.  Shoreline recreation uses except underwater  
    diving areas or reefs, bicycle and pedestrian paths and viewpoints;  
  
          JI.  Agricultural uses except aquaculture;  
  
          KJ.  The following protective structures:  
  
                1.  Bulkheads on Class I beaches, and  
  
                2.  Groins and similar structures which block the flow of  
    sand to adjacent beaches, except drift sills or other structures  
    which are part of a natural beach protection system; and  
  
          LK.  Landfill which creates dry land except as part  
    of wildlife or fisheries habitat.  
  
          Section 3.  Subsection C of Section 23.60.365 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118793,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.365  Administrative conditional uses in the CR Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          C.  The following uses may be authorized in the CR Environment  
    either as principal or accessory uses:  
  
                1.  The following uses when associated with a public  
    park:  
  
                      a.  Small craft center,  
  
                      b.  Boat launching ramp for auto-trailered boats,  
  
                      c.  The following non-water-dependent commercial  
    uses:  
  
                            (1)  Sale of boat parts or accessories,  
  
                            (2)  Personal and household retail  
    General sales and services,  
  
                            (3)  Major durables sales, and  
  
                            (3)(4)  Eating and drinking  
    establishments;  
  
                2.  Community yacht, boat and beach clubs when:  
  
                      a.  No eating and drinking establishments are  
    included in the use,  
  
                      b.  No more than one (1) pier or float is included  
    in the use, and  
  
                      c.  Any accessory pier or float meets the standards  
    of Section 23.60.204 for piers and floats accessory to residential  
    development.  
  
          Section 4.  Section 23.60.368 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118663, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.368  Prohibited uses in the CR Environment.  
  
          The following uses shall be prohibited as principal uses in the  
    CR Environment:  
  
          A.  Residential uses except those permitted by Section  
    23.60.365 A;  
  
          B.  Commercial uses except those specifically permitted by  
    Section 23.60.365 C;  
  
          C.  Utility uses except utility lines;  
  
          D.  Salvage and recycling uses;  
  
          ED.  Manufacturing uses;  
  
          FE.  High-impact uses;  
  
          GF.  Institutional uses except community clubs  
    meeting the criteria of Section 23.60.365 C;  
  
          HG.  Public facilities not authorized by Section  
    23.60.370;  
  
          IH. Parks and Open space uses except  
    shoreline recreation uses permitted by Section 23.60.360 B;  
  
          JI. Agricultural uses except aquaculture;  
  
          KJ. The following shoreline protective structures:  
  
                1. Groins and similar structures which block the flow of  
    sand to adjacent beaches, except drift sills or other structures  
    which are part of a natural beach protection system, and  
  
                2. Bulkheads on Class I beaches; and  
  
          LK. Landfill which creates dry land except as part  
    of habitat mitigation or enhancement.  
  
          Section 5.  Section 23.60.424 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113674, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.424  Special uses permitted on waterfront lots in the CM  
    Environment.  
  
          The following uses may be authorized by the Director on  
    waterfront lots in the CM Environment as either principal or  
    accessory uses if the special use criteria in Section  23.60.032 are  
    satisfied:  
  
          A.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Sale or rental of large boats,  
  
                2.  Marine service station, and  
  
                3.  Vessel repair, minor;  
  
          B.  The following transportation facility uses:  
  
                  41.  Recreational marina,  
  
                52.  Dry storage ofboats storage,  
  
                63.  Water-dependent passenger terminals,  
    provided that the impact of terminal operation on adjacent  
    residential neighborhoods and streets can be mitigated, and  
  
                74.  Airports, water-based;  
  
          BC.  Streets;  
  
          CD.  Bridges;  
  
          DE.  Expansion of existing sewage treatment plants,  
    not including expansion for additional treatment capacity or the  
    addition of a new treatment level;  
  
          EF.  Public facilities, water-dependent or water-  
    related;  
  
          FG.  The following institutional uses:  
  
                1.  New yacht, boat and beach clubs,  
  
                2.  Institute for advanced study, water-dependent or  
    water-related,  
  
                3.  Museum, water-dependent or water-related,  
  
                4.  Shoreline recreation accessory to a school, college  
    or university;  
  
          GH.  The following shoreline protective structures:  
  
                1.  Natural beach protection,  
  
                2.  Bulkheads to support a water-dependent or water-  
    related use, or to enclose a permitted landfill area, or to prevent  
    erosion on Class II or Class III beaches when natural beach  
    protection is not a practical alternative;  
  
          HI.  Dredging, when the dredging is necessary for a  
    water-dependent or water-related use;  
  
          IJ.  The following types of landfill:  
  
                1.  Landfill on submerged lands which does not create dry  
    land, if necessary for a water-dependent or water-related use or for  
    the installation of a bridge or utility line,  
  
                2.  Landfill for the creation of wildlife or fisheries  
    habitat as mitigation or enhancement, and  
  
                3.  Landfill on submerged land which creates dry land:  
  
                      a.  When the dry land is necessary for a water-  
    dependent or water-related use, and  
  
                      b.  If more than two (2) square yards of dry land  
    per linear yard of shoreline is created, the landfill meets the  
    following additional criteria:  
  
                            (1)  No reasonable alternative to the  
    landfill exists,  
  
                            (2)  The development provides a clear public  
    benefit, and  
  
                            (3)  The landfill site is not located in Lake  
    Union or Portage Bay.  
  
          Section 6.  Subsections B and C of Section 23.60.426 of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance  
    118793, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.426  Conditional uses permitted in the CM Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          B.  Non-water-dependent commercial uses on historic ships:  
  
                1.  The following uses may be permitted on an historic  
    ship when meeting the criteria in subsection B2:  
  
                      a.  Sale of boat parts or accessories,  
  
                      b.  Personal and household retailGeneral  
    sales and services,  
  
                      c.  Major durables sales, and  
  
                      cd.  Eating and drinking  
    establishments;  
  
                2.  a . The use is located on a ship designated as  
    historic by the Landmarks Preservation Board or listed on the  
    National Register of Historic Places,  
  
                      b.  The use is compatible with the existing design  
    and/or construction of the ship without significant alteration,  
  
                      c.  Other uses permitted outright or as special  
    uses are not practical because of ship design or such uses cannot  
    provide adequate financial support necessary to sustain the ship in a  
    reasonably good physical condition,  
  
                      d.  A Certificate of Approval has been obtained  
    from the Landmarks Preservation Board, and  
  
                      e.  No other historic ship containing restaurant or  
    retail uses is located within one-half ( 1/2) mile of the proposed  
    site;  
  
          C.  Non-water-dependent commercial uses associated with a  
    public park:  
  
                1.  The following uses associated with a public park may  
    be permitted when meeting the criteria of subsection C2:  
  
                      a.  Sale of boat parts or accessories,  
  
                      b.  Personal and household retailGeneral  
    sales and services,  
  
                      c.  Major durables sales, and  
  
                      cd.  Eating and drinking  
    establishments;  
  
                2.  a.  The use is associated with a public park,  
  
                      b.  The use is located on a lot which does not  
    exceed two thousand four hundred (2,400) square feet in area, and  
  
                      c.  All personal and household goods sold or rented  
    are for use on the lot or immediate adjacent waters.  
  
          Section 7.  Section 23.60.430 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118663, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.430  Prohibited principal uses on waterfront lots in the CM  
    Environment.  
  
          The following uses are prohibited as principal uses on  
    waterfront lots in the CM Environment:  
  
          A.  Residential uses;  
  
          B.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Vessel repair, major,  
  
                2.  Commercial moorage,  
  
                3.  Tugboat services,  
  
  
                42.  Sale of boat parts or accessories except  
    when permitted as a conditional use,  
  
                53.  Personal and household retail  
    General sales and services except when permitted as a conditional  
    use,  
  
                64.  Medical services,  
  
                75.  Animal servicesAnimal shelters  
    and kennels,  
  
                86.  Automotive retailsales and  
    services,  
  
                97. Eating and drinking establishments except  
    when permitted as a conditional use,  
  
                108. Lodging,  
  
                11. Mortuary services,  
  
                129. NonhouseholdHeavy sales and  
    services except Major durable sales when permitted as a  
    conditional use,  
  
                13. Parking, principal use,  
  
                1410. Offices,  
  
                1511. Entertainment uses,  
  
                16. Wholesale showrooms,  
  
                17. Mini-warehouses,  
  
  
                18. Warehouses,  
  
  
                19. Outdoor storage,  
  
  
                20. Personal transportation services,  
  
  
                21. Passenger terminals, non-water-dependent,  
  
  
                22. Cargo terminals,  
  
  
                23. Transit vehicle bases,  
  
  
                24. Helistops and heliports,  
  
  
                25. Airports, land-based,  
  
  
                2611. Research and development laboratories, and  
  
                2712. Food processing and craft work uses;  
  
          C.  Salvage and recycling uses;The following  
    transportation facilities uses:  
  
                1.  Commercial moorage;  
  
  
                2.  Tugboat services;  
  
  
                3.  Parking, principal use;  
  
  
                4.  Vehicle storage and maintenance;  
  
  
                5.  Passenger terminals, non-water-dependent;  
  
  
                6.  Cargo terminals;  
  
  
                7.  Helistops and heliports;  
  
  
                8.  Airports, land-based;  
  
          D.  Railroads;  
  
          E.  The following utilities:  
  
                1.  Communication utilities,  
  
                2.  Solid waste managementtransfer stations,  
  
                3.  Power plants, and  
  
                4.  New sewage treatment plants  
  
                5.  Recycling;  
  
          F.  Storage uses;  
  
          FG. Manufacturing uses;  
  
          GH. High-impact uses;  
  
          HI. Institutional uses except those specifically  
    permitted under Sections 23.60.420 and 23.60.422;  
  
          IK. Public facilities not authorized by Section  
    23.60.436 and those that are non-water-dependent;  
  
          JL. Parks and Open space uses except  
    shoreline recreation;  
  
          KM. Agricultural uses except aquaculture; and  
  
          LN. The following shoreline protective structures:  
  
                1. Groins and similar structures which block the flow of  
    sand to adjacent beaches, except drift sills or other structures  
    which are part of a natural beach protection system, and  
  
                2. Bulkheads on Class I beaches.  
  
          Section 8.  Subsections C, D, E, F, G, H, and I of Section  
    23.60.484 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last  
    amended by Ordinance 120927, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.484  Special uses in the CW Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          C.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Vessel repair, minor, and  
  
                2.  Commercial moorage,  
  
                3.  Tugboat services,  
  
  
                4  Rental of boats, and  
  
                5.  Airport, water-based;  
  
          D.  The following transportation facility uses:  
  
                1.  Commercial moorage,  
  
  
                2.  Tugboat services, and  
  
  
                3.  Airport, water-based;  
  
  
          DE.  Museum, water-dependent;  
  
          EF.  Public facilities, water-dependent or water-  
    related;  
  
          FG.  Shoreline protective structures;  
  
          GH.  Utility lines, excluding communication  
    utilities;  
  
          HI.  Dredging necessary to maintain or improve  
    navigation channels, to install utility lines or for a water-  
    dependent or water-related use; and  
  
          IJ.  Landfill which does not create dry land.  
  
          Section 9.  Subsection B of Section 23.60.486 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118793,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.486  Conditional uses in the CW Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          B.  Non-water-dependent commercial uses on historic ships:  
  
                1.  The following uses may be permitted on an historic  
    ship when meeting the criteria in subsection B2:  
  
                      a.  Sale of boat parts and accessories,  
  
                      b.  Personal and household retailGeneral  
    sales and services,  
  
                      c.  Major durables sales, and  
  
                      cd.  Eating and drinking  
    establishments;  
  
                2.  a.  The ship is designated as historic by the  
    Landmarks Preservation Board or listed on the National Register of  
    Historical Places,  
  
                      b.  The use is compatible with the existing design  
    and/or construction of the ship without significant alteration,  
  
                      c.  Other uses permitted outright are impractical  
    because of ship design or such uses cannot provide adequate financial  
    support to sustain the ship in a reasonably good physical condition,  
  
                      d.  A certificate of approval has been obtained  
    from the Landmarks Preservation Board, and  
  
                      e.  No other historic ship containing restaurant or  
    retail uses is located within one-half ( 1/2) mile of the proposed  
    site.  
  
          Section 10.  Section 23.60.488 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 120927, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.488  Prohibited uses in the CW Environment.  
  
          The following uses shall be prohibited as principal and  
    accessory uses in the CW Environment;  
  
          A.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Marine service station,  
  
                2.  Sale of large boats,  
  
                3.  Sale of boat parts and accessories,  
  
                4.  Dry boat storage,  
  
                5.  Recreational marina,  
  
  
                64.  All non-water-dependent commercial uses  
    except those permitted on historic ships, and  
  
                75.  Vessel repair, major, except of historic  
    ships;  
  
          B.  The following transportation facility uses:  
  
                1.  Dry boat storage, and  
  
  
                2.  Recreational marina;  
  
  
          BC.  Residential uses;  
  
          CD.  Institutional uses not permitted above;  
  
          D.  Salvage and recycling uses;  
  
          E.  Manufacturing uses;  
  
          F.  Agricultural uses;  
  
          G.  Utility uses, except utility lines;  
  
          H.  High-impact uses; and  
  
          I.  Landfill on submerged land which creates dry land.  
  
          Section 11.  Subsections B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, and J of  
    Section 23.60.544 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was  
    last amended by Ordinance 120927, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.544  Prohibited uses on waterfront lots in the UR  
    Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          B.  Transportation facility uses;  
  
          C.  Storage uses;  
  
  
          BD.  The following utilities:  
  
                1.  Major and minor communication utilities,  
  
                2.  Solid waste management transfer  
    stations,  
  
                3.  Power plants, and  
  
                4.  Sewage treatment plants, and  
  
                5.  Recycling;  
  
          C.  Salvage and recycling uses;  
  
          DE.  Manufacturing uses;  
  
          EF.  High-impact uses;  
  
          FG.  The following institutional uses:  
  
                1.  Institutions, nonwater-dependent,  
  
                2.  Private yacht, boat and beach clubs;  
  
          GH.  Public facilities not authorized by Section  
    23.60.550;  
  
          HI.  Agricultural uses;  
  
          IJ.  Parks and Open space uses except  
    shoreline recreation;  
  
          JK.  The following shoreline protective structures:  
  
                1.  Groins and similar structures which block the flow of  
    sand to adjacent beaches, except drift sills or other structures  
    which are part of a natural beach protection system, and  
  
                2.  Bulkheads on Class I beaches.  
  
          Section 12.  Subsections A, B, and C of Section 23.60.600 of  
    the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by  
    Ordinance 120927, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.600  Uses permitted outright on waterfront lots in the US  
    Environment.  
  
          The following uses shall be permitted outright on waterfront  
    lots in the Urban Stable environment as either principal or accessory  
    uses:  
  
          A.  The following residential uses:  
  
                1.  Residences on dry land when the underlying zoning is  
    Residential Commercial (RC) and when the residential use is located  
    above the ground floor of a structure containing nonresidential uses  
    on the ground floor,  
  
  
                2.  Existing residences on dry land provided there is no  
    increase in the number of units,  
  
                3.  Existing over-water single-family residences provided  
    there is no additional water coverage, and  
  
                4.  Floating home moorages or the expansion of floating  
    home moorages, when:  
  
                      a.  Located in Lake Union or Portage Bay,  
  
                      b.  Occupied solely by no more than two (2)  
    existing floating homes as defined in subsection A4 of Section  
    23.60.196, under any of the following conditions:  
  
                            (1)  The floating homes have been evicted  
    from other moorage pursuant to the provisions of subsections E, G or  
    H of Section 7.20.040, Seattle Municipal Code, or  
  
                            (2)  The floating homes have been relocated  
    from other moorage pursuant to a settlement agreement entered into  
    prior to April 1, 1987 between a moorage owner and a tenant floating-  
    home owner arising out of a legal action for eviction,  
  
                      c.  No more than one (1) such moorage or moorage  
    expansion is permitted per lot established as of April 1, 1987, and  
  
                      d.  The moorage is added to a recreational marina,  
    commercial moorage, or floating home moorage existing as ofthe  
    effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter1  
    December 31, 1987;  
  
          B.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Marine retailsales and services,  
  
                2.  Food processing, water-related, and  
  
                3.  Wholesale showroom,mini-warehouse, warehouse  
    and open storage,water-related, and  
  
          C.  Storage uses, water-related;  
  
          4D.  Passenger terminals, water-dependent;  
  
          CE.   1.  The following non-water-dependent  
    commercial uses on dry land when the requirements of subsection C2  
    are met:  
  
                      a.  Personal and household retailGeneral  
     sales and services,  
  
                      b.  Major durables sales,  
  
                      bc.  Eating and drinking  
    establishments,  
  
                      cd.  Offices outside the Lake Union  
    area,  
  
                      de.  Offices in the Lake Union area  
    above the ground floor of a structure when permitted uses other than  
    office or residential uses occupy the ground-floor level, and parking  
    on the ground-floor level is limited to required parking,  
  
                      ef.  Entertainment uses, and  
  
                      fg.  Custom and craft work,  
  
                2.  The uses listed in subsection C1 shall be permitted  
    when a water- dependent use occupies forty (40) percent of the dry-  
    land portion of the lot or the development provides one (1) or more  
    of the following facilities or amenities in addition to regulated  
    public access:  
  
                      a.  Facilities for the moorage, restoration, or  
    reconstruction of one (1) or more historic vessels,  
  
                      b.  Terminal facilities for one (1) or more cruise  
    ships, harbor tour boats, or foot passenger ferries,  
  
                      c.  More than five hundred (500) lineal feet of  
    moorage for commercial fishing vessels at rates equivalent to that  
    charged at public moorage facilities,  
  
                      d.  Facilities for a maritime museum or waterfront  
    interpretive center that is a separate nonprofit organization  
    existing at time of application,  
  
                      e.  More than one thousand five hundred (1,500)  
    lineal feet of saltwater moorage for recreational vessels,  
  
                      f.  A major public open space, occupying at least  
    one-third ( 1/3) of the dry-land lot area, which includes a public  
    walkway with benches and picnic tables along the entire water  
    frontage, and connecting public walkways to adjacent sites and any  
    nearby public parks or other public facilities. The Director shall  
    require adequate signed parking for the open space, or  
  
                      g. Other facilities or amenities similar to those  
    listed above which provide an opportunity for substantial numbers of  
    people to enjoy the shoreline, when approved by the Director;  
  
    * * *  
  
    1. Editor's Note: Chapter 23.60, the Seattle Shoreline Master  
    Program, became effective on December 31, 1987.  
  
          Section 13.  Subsections B and C of Section 23.60.604 of the  
    Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance  
    119871, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.604  Conditional uses on waterfront lots in the US  
    Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          B.  The following non-water-dependent uses located over water  
    on lots with a depth of less than fifty (50) feet of dry land:  
  
                1.  Eating and drinking establishments meeting the  
    criteria of subsection C2 of Section 23.60.600,  
  
                2.  Marine retailsales and services,  
  
                3.  General Personal and household retail  
    sales and service uses,  
  
                4.  Entertainment uses, and  
  
                5.  Custom and craft work;  
  
          C.  Non-water-dependent commercial uses on historic ships:  
  
                1.  The following uses may be permitted on an historic  
    ship when meeting the criteria in subsection C2 below:  
  
                      a.  Sale of boat parts or accessories,  
  
                      b.  Personal and household retailGeneral  
    sales and services,  
  
                      c.  Major durables sales, and  
  
                      cd.  Eating and drinking  
    establishments,  
  
                2.  a.  The ship is designated as historic by the  
    Landmarks Preservation Board or listed on the National Register of  
    Historical Places,  
  
                      b.  The use is compatible with the existing design  
    and/or construction of the ship without significant alteration,  
  
                      c.  Uses permitted outright are impractical because  
    of the ship design and/or the permitted uses cannot provide adequate  
    financial support necessary to sustain the ship in a reasonably good  
    physical condition,  
  
                      d.  A certificate of approval has been obtained  
    from the Landmarks Preservation Board, and  
  
                      e.  No other historic ship containing restaurant or  
    retail uses is located within one-half ( 1/2) mile of the proposed  
    site.  
  
          Section 14.  Subsections B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, and J of  
    Section 23.60.606 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was  
    last amended by Ordinance 120927, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.606  Prohibited uses on waterfront lots in the US  
    Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          B.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Medical services,  
  
                2.  Animal shelters and kennelsservices,  
  
                3.  Pet grooming,  
  
                34.  Automotive retailsales and services,  
  
                45.  Lodging,  
  
                5.  Mortuary services,  
  
                6.  Parking, principal use,Food processing,  
    non-water-dependent,  
  
                7.  NonhouseholdHeavy sales and services  
    except water-dependent wholesale showrooms,  
  
                8.  Ground-level offices in the Lake Union area,  
  
                9.  Non-water-dependent wholesale showroom, mini-  
    warehouse, warehouse and outdoor storage uses, Research and  
    development laboratories, and  
  
                10.  Off-premises signs,  
  
          C.  The following transportation facility uses:  
  
                1.  Parking, principal use,  
  
  
                112.  Personal transportation services,  
  
                123.  Passenger terminals, non-water-  
    dependent,  
  
                134.  Cargo terminals,  
  
                145.  Transit vehicle bases,  
  
                156.  Helistops and heliports,  
  
                167.  Airports, land-based,  
  
                17.  Food processing, non-water-dependent, and  
  
                18.  Research and development laboratory;  
  
  
          C.  Salvage and recycling uses;  
  
          D.  The following manufacturing uses:  
  
                1.  Light and general manufacturing, non-water-dependent,  
    and  
  
                2.  Heavy manufacturing uses;  
  
          E.  High-impact uses;  
  
          F.  The following utilities:  
  
                1.  Major communication utilities,  
  
                2.  Solid waste managementtransfer stations,  
  
                3.  Power plants,  
  
                4.  Recycling uses,  
  
                5.  Sewage treatment plants, and  
  
                56.  Freestanding transmission towers for  
    minor communication utilities;  
  
          G.  Storage uses;  
  
          GH.  Public facilities not authorized by Section  
    23.60.612 and those that are non-water-dependent;  
  
          HI.  Institutional uses, non-water-dependent;  
  
          IJ.  Agricultural uses except aquaculture; and  
  
          JK.  Groins and similar structures which block the  
    flow of sand to adjacent beaches, except drift sills or other  
    structures which are part of a natural beach protection system.  
  
          Section 15.  Subsection A of Section 23.60.608 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118793,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.608  Permitted uses on upland lots in the US Environment.  
  
          A.  Uses Permitted Outright.  
  
                1.  Uses permitted outright on waterfront lots in the US  
    Environment are permitted outright on upland lots and are not subject  
    to the requirements of Section 23.60.600 C to provide special public  
    benefits.  
  
                2.  Additional uses permitted outright on upland lots:  
  
                      a.  The following residential uses:  
  
                            (1)  Single-family and multifamily  
  
    residences, and  
  
                            (2)  Congregate residences and nursing homes;  
  
                      b.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                            (1)  Medical services,  
  
                            (2)  Animalservicesshelters and  
    kennels,  
  
                            (3)  Pet grooming,  
  
                            34  Automotive retail  
    sales and service,  
  
                            (4)  Parking, principal use,  
  
                            (5)  Lodging,  
  
                            (6)  Mortuary services,  
  
                            76  NonhouseholdHeavy  
    sales and service,  
  
                            (8)  Wholesale showroom, mini- warehouse,  
    warehouse and outdoor storage uses, non-water-dependent,  
  
                            97)  Research and development  
    laboratories, and  
  
                            108  Ground-level offices in  
    the Lake Union area;  
  
                      c.  Parking, principal use;  
  
                      d.  Storage uses;  
  
  
                      c.  Recycling collection stations;  
  
                      de.  Light and general manufacturing  
    uses;  
  
                      ef.  Institutional uses; and  
  
                      fg.  Public facilities.  
  
    * * *  
  
          Section 16.  Subsection E of Section 23.60.636 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113466,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.636  View corridors in the US Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          E.  A view corridor or corridors of not less than sixty-five  
    (65) percent of the width of the lot shall be provided on the  
    waterfront lots fronting on Seaview Avenue Northwest between the  
    north boundary of 38th Avenue Northwest and the south boundary of  
    vacated Northwest 80th Street. The following may be located in the  
    required view corridors:  
  
                1.  Open wet moorage;  
  
                2.  Dry storage ofboats storage; and  
  
                3.  Parking for both water-dependent and non-water-  
    dependent uses.  
  
          Section 17.  Section 23.60.636 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113466, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.660  Uses permitted outright on waterfront lots in the UH  
    Environment.  
  
          The following uses shall be permitted over water or on dry-land  
    portions of waterfront lots in the Urban Harborfront environment as  
    either principal or accessory uses:  
  
          A.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Personal and household retailGeneral  
    sales and services,  
  
                2.  Marine retailsales and services,  
  
                3.  Eating and drinking establishments,  
  
                4.  Existing hotels, provided that expansion of the hotel  
    use shall be prohibited and expansion only for public access shall be  
    permitted,  
  
                5.  Parking over water when accessory to a water-  
    dependent or water- related use,  
  
                6.  Parking on dry land when accessory to a permitted  
    use,  
  
  
                75.  Offices when located above wharf level,  
  
                86.  Entertainment uses,  
  
                9.  Passenger terminals, water-dependent,  
  
                10.  Breakbulk cargo terminals,  
  
  
                117.  Research and development laboratories,  
    water-dependent, and  
  
                128.  Food processing and craft work uses;  
  
          B.  The following transportation facilities:  
  
                1.  Parking over water when accessory to a water-  
    dependent or water- related use,  
  
  
                2.  Parking on dry land when accessory to a permitted  
    use,  
  
  
                3.  Passenger terminals, water-dependent,  
  
  
                4.  Breakbulk cargo terminals,  
  
  
          BC.  Light manufacturing uses, water-dependent  
    or water-related;  
  
          CD.  Streets, railroads and bridges;  
  
          DE.  The following institutions:  
  
                1.  Institutes for advanced study, water-dependent or  
    water-related,  
  
                2.  Maritime museums,  
  
                3.  Colleges that have water-dependent or water-related  
    facilities,  
  
                4.  Community centers,  
  
                5.  Vocational schools, water-dependent or water-related,  
  
                6.  Community yacht, boat, and beach clubs, and  
  
                7.  Child care centers when located above wharf level;  
  
          EF.  The following public facilities:  
  
                1.  Public facilities, water-dependent or water-related,  
    and  
  
                2.  Public facilities that are part of an approved public  
    improvement plan for the Harbor front adopted by the Council;  
  
          Section 18.  Subsections A, B, and C of Section 23.60.664 of  
    the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by  
    Ordinance 118793, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.664  Administrative conditional uses permitted on  
    waterfront lots in the UH Environment.  
  
          The following uses may be authorized over water or on dry-land  
    portions of waterfront lots in the UH Environment by the Director,  
    with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as either  
    principal or accessory uses if the criteria for conditional uses in  
    WAC 173-27-160 are satisfied:  
  
          A.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Outdoor storage, water-related or water-dependent,  
  
                2.  Warehouses, water-related or water-dependent,  
  
                31.  Wholesale showrooms, and  
  
                42.  Research and development laboratories, non-  
    water-dependent;  
  
          B.  The following storage uses:  
  
                1.  Outdoor storage, water-related or water-dependent,  
    and  
  
  
                2.  Warehouses, water-related or water-dependent;  
  
  
          BC.  Non-water-dependent commercial uses on historic  
    ships:  
  
                1.  The following uses may be permitted on an historic  
    ship when meeting the criteria in subsection C2 below:  
  
                      a.  Sale of boat parts or accessories,  
  
                      b.  Personal and household retailGeneral  
    sales and services,  
  
                      c.  Major durables sales, and  
  
                      cd.  Eating and drinking establishments,  
  
                2.  a.  The ship is designated as historic by the  
    Landmarks Preservation Board or listed on the National Register of  
    Historic Places,  
  
                      b.  The use is compatible with the existing design  
    and/or construction of the ship without significant alteration,  
  
                      c.  Uses permitted outright are not practical  
    because of ship design and/or cannot provide adequate financial  
    support necessary to sustain the ship in a reasonably good physical  
    condition,  
  
                      d.  The use shall obtain a certificate of approval  
    from the Landmarks Preservation Board, and  
  
                      e.  No other historic ship containing restaurant or  
    retail uses is located within one-half (1/2) mile of the proposed  
    site, unless the proposed site is within the Historic Character Area;  
  
    * * *  
  
          Section 19.  Subsections B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, and K of  
    Section 23.60.668 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was  
    last amended by Ordinance 120927, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.668  Prohibited uses on waterfront lots in the UH  
    Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          B.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Medical services,  
  
                2.  Animal shelters and kennels services,  
  
                3.  Pet grooming  
  
                34.  Automotive retailsales and service,  
  
                45.  Lodging, except existing hotels,  
  
                5.  Mortuary services,  
  
                6.  Offices at wharf/street level,  
  
                7.  Adult motion picture theaters and panorams,  
  
                8.  Parking, principal use,  
  
                8.9.  NonhouseholdHeavy sales and  
    services except wholesale showrooms and major durable sales,  
  
                10.  Mini-warehouses,  
  
                11.  Personal transportation services,  
  
  
                12.  Cargo terminals, except breakbulk,  
  
  
                13.  Transit vehicle bases,  
  
  
                14.  Heliports,  
  
  
                15.  Airports, land-based, and  
  
  
                16.  Airports, water-based;  
  
          C.  The following transportation facilities:  
  
                1.  Parking, principal use,  
  
  
                2.  Personal transportation services,  
  
  
                3.  Cargo terminals, except breakbulk,  
  
  
                4.  Bus bases,  
  
  
                5.  Heliports,  
  
  
                6.  Airports, land-based, and  
  
  
                7.  Airports, water-based;  
  
  
          D.  Mini-warehouses,  
  
  
          C.  Salvage and recycling uses;  
  
          DE.  The following utilities:  
  
                1.  Solid waste managementtransfer stations,  
  
                2.  Power plants,  
  
                3.  Sewage treatment plants,  
  
                4.  Recycling uses,  
  
                5.  Major communication utilities, and  
  
                56.  Freestanding transmission towers for minor  
    communication utilities;  
  
          EF.  General and heavy manufacturing;  
  
          FG.  The following institutional uses:  
  
                1.  Schools, elementary or secondary,  
  
                2.  Hospitals,  
  
                3.  Religious facilities, and  
  
                4.  Private yacht, boat and beach clubs;  
  
          GH.  Public facilities or projects that are nonwater-  
    dependent except those that are part of public improvement plan for  
    the harborfront adopted by the Council;  
  
          HI.  High-impact uses;  
  
          IJ.  Agriculture uses except aquaculture;  
  
          JK.  Groins and similar structures which block the flow  
    of sand to adjacent beaches, except drift sills or other structures  
    which are part of a natural beach protection system; and  
  
          KL.  Landfill which creates dry land.  
  
          Section 20.  Subsection A of Section 23.60.670 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113466,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.670 Permitted uses on upland lots in the UH Environment.  
  
          A.  Uses Permitted Outright. The following uses shall be  
    permitted outright on upland lots as principal or accessory uses in  
    the UH Environment:  
  
                1.  Uses permitted outright on waterfront lots in the UH  
    environment;  
  
                2.  Additional uses permitted outright on upland lots:  
  
                      a.  Residential uses,  
  
                      b.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                            (1) Nonhousehold retailHeavy  
    sales and services,  
  
                            (2)  Warehouses,  
  
                            (3)  Medical services,  
  
                            43  Lodging,  
  
                            54  Offices at street level,  
  
                      c.  The following transportation facilities,  
  
                            61  Parking garages,  
    principal use,  
  
                            72  Surface parking areas,  
    principal use,  
  
                            83  Personal transportation  
    services,  
  
                      d.  Warehouses;  
  
                      ce.  Institutions, and  
  
                      df.  Public facilities.  
  
    * * *  
  
          Section 21.  Section 23.60.720 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113466, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.720 Uses permitted outright on waterfront lots in the UM  
    Environment.  
  
          The following uses shall be permitted outright on waterfront  
    lots in the Urban Maritime Environment as either principal or  
    accessory uses:  
  
          A.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Marine retailsales and services, except marinas  
    and sale of boat parts or accessories,  
  
                2. Tugboat services,  
  
                3.Wholesale showrooms, warehouse and outdoor  
    storage uses,water- dependent or water-related,  
  
                4.  Passenger terminals, water-dependent,  
  
                5.  Cargo terminals, water-dependent or water-related,  
  
  
                63.  Food processing, water-dependent or water-  
    related;  
  
          B.  The following transportation facilities:  
  
                1.  Tugboat services,  
  
  
                2.  Passenger terminals, water-dependent,  
  
  
                3.  Cargo terminals, Water-dependent or water-related;  
  
  
          C.  The following storage uses:  
  
  
                1.  Warehouses, water-dependent or water-related, or  
  
  
                2.  Outdoor storage, water-dependent or water-related;  
  
  
          BD.  Streets, railroads and bridges;  
  
          CE.  The following utilities:  
  
                1.  Utility lines,  
  
                2.  Utility public service uses whose operations require  
    a shoreline location, and  
  
                3.  Minor communication utilities, except freestanding  
    transmission towers;  
  
          DF.  The following institutional uses:  
  
                1.  Water-dependent or water-related research and  
    education facilities of colleges and universities,  
  
                2.  Shoreline recreation facilities of schools, colleges  
    and universities, and  
  
                3.  Water-dependent or water-related colleges, institutes  
    for advanced study and vocational schools;  
  
          EG.  Light and general manufacturing uses, water-  
    dependent or water- related;  
  
          FH.  Public facilities, water-dependent or water-related;  
  
          GI.  Shoreline recreation uses; and  
  
          HJ.  Aquaculture.  
  
          Section 22.  Subsection B of Section 23.60.724 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118793,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.724  Conditional uses on waterfront lots in the UM  
    Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          B.  Non-water-dependent commercial and manufacturing uses:  
  
                1.  The following non-water-dependent commercial,  
    storage, and manufacturing uses may be permitted as principal uses  
    on dry land or over water when meeting the criteria of subsection B2  
    or B3:  
  
                      a.  Sale of boat parts and accessories,  
  
                      b.  Personal and household retailGeneral  
    sales and services,  
  
                      c.  Eating and drinking establishments,  
  
                      d.  NonhouseholdHeavy sales and  
    services except commercial laundries,  
  
                      e.  Offices,  
  
                      f.  Warehouse,wholesale showroom, mini-  
    warehouse, outdoor storage,  
  
                      g.  Food processing and craft work, and  
  
                      h.  Light, general and heavy manufacturing,  
  
                2.  The above uses are permitted on dry land when:  
  
                      a.  The non-water-dependent commercial uses occupy  
    no more than ten (10) percent of the dry-land area of the lot except  
    that when the lot provides more than nine thousand (9,000) lineal  
    feet of moorage for commercial vessels, the non-water-dependent  
    commercial uses may occupy up to twenty (20) percent of the dry-land  
    area of the lot,  
  
                      b.  The total of all non-water-dependent commercial  
    and manufacturing uses occupy no more than twenty (20) percent of the  
    dry land area of the lot, and  
  
                      c.  The uses are located on site to accommodate  
    water-dependent or water-related uses on site,  
  
                3.  The uses listed in subsection B1 are permitted on dry  
    land or over water when:  
  
                      a.  The lot has less than fifty (50) feet of dry  
    land and, if located over water, a dry-land location of the uses is  
    not feasible,  
  
                      b.  The non-water-dependent commercial uses occupy  
    no more than five (5) percent of the total lot area including  
    submerged lands,  
  
                      c.  The total of all non-water-dependent commercial  
    and manufacturing uses occupy no more than ten (10) percent of the  
    total lot area including submerged land, and  
  
                      d.  The non-water-dependent uses are located to  
    accommodate the water- dependent or water-related uses on site,  
  
                4.  The uses permitted in subsection B1 may be relocated  
    on a lot provided the requirements of subsection B2 or B3 are met;  
  
    * * *  
  
          Section 23.  Subsections B, C, D, and E of Section 23.60.728 of  
    the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by  
    Ordinance 120927, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.728  Prohibited uses on waterfront lots in the UM  
    Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          B.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Medical services,  
  
                2.  Animal servicesshelters and kennels,  
  
                3.  Pet grooming,  
  
                34.  Automotive retailsales and service,  
  
                4.  Parking, principal use,  
  
                5.  Lodging,  
  
                6.  Mortuary services,  
  
                7.  Entertainment uses, except where permitted as a  
    conditional use pursuant to Section 23.60.724 D,  
  
                8.  Commercial laundries, and  
  
                9.  Personal transportation services,  
  
                10.  Passenger terminals, non-water-dependent,  
  
  
                11.  Cargo terminals, non-water-dependent,  
  
  
                12.  Transit vehicle bases,  
  
  
                13.  Helistops,  
  
  
                14.  Heliports,  
  
  
                15.  Airports, land-based,  
  
  
                16.  Covered wet moorage on Lake Union and Portage Bay,  
    and  
  
                17.  Research and development laboratories, except where  
    permitted as a conditional use pursuant to subsection C of Section  
    23.60.724;  
  
          C.  The following transportation facility uses:  
  
                1.  Parking, principal use,  
  
  
                2.  Personal transportation services,  
  
  
                3.  Passenger terminals, non-water-dependent,  
  
  
                4.  Cargo terminals, non-water-dependent,  
  
  
                5.  Transit vehicle bases,  
  
  
                6.  Helistops,  
  
  
                7.  Heliports,  
  
  
                8.  Airports, land-based, and  
  
  
                9.  Covered wet moorage on Lake Union and Portage Bay  
  
  
          C.  Salvage and recycling uses;  
  
          D.  High-impact uses;  
  
          E.  The following utilities:  
  
                1.  Major communication utilities,  
  
                2.  Solid waste managementtransfer stations,  
  
                3.  Recycling uses,  
  
                34.  Power plants,  
  
                45.  Sewage treatment plants, and  
  
                56.  Freestanding transmission towers for minor  
    communication utilities;  
  
    * * *  
  
          Section 24.  Subsection A of Section 23.60.730 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by ordinance 120927,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.730  Permitted uses on upland lots in the UM Environment.  
  
          A.  Uses Permitted Outright.  
  
                1.  Uses permitted outright on waterfront lots in the UM  
    Environment are permitted outright on upland lots.  
  
                2.  Additional uses permitted outright on upland lots:  
  
                      a.  Commercial Uses.  
  
                            (1)  Sale of boat parts or accessories,  
  
                            (2)  Personal and household retail  
    General sales and service uses,  
  
                            (3)  Medical services,  
  
                            (4)  Animal services shelters and  
    kennels,  
  
                            (5)  Automotive retailsales and  
    service,  
  
                            (6)  Eating and drinking establishments,  
  
                            (7)  NonhouseholdHeavy sales and  
    services,  
  
                            (8)  Food processing and craft work,  
  
                            (9)  Offices except in the Lake Union area,  
    and  
  
  
                            (10)  Research and development laboratories;  
    Wholesale showroom, mini-warehouse, warehouse and outdoor  
    storage,  
  
                      b.  Storage uses  
  
                      c.  The following transportation facilities:  
  
  
                            91  Cargo terminals, non-  
    water-dependent,  
  
                            102  Personal transportation  
    services,  
  
                            113  Passenger terminals, non-  
    water-dependent,  
  
                            124  Transit vehicle base,  
  
                            (13)  Food processing,  
  
                            (14)  Custom and craft work,  
  
  
                            (15)  Offices except in the Lake Union area,  
    and  
  
  
                            (16)  Research and development laboratories;  
  
  
                      b.  Recycling usescenters;  
  
                      c.  Light and general manufacturing uses, non-  
    water-dependent;  
  
                      d.  Public facilities; and  
  
                      e.  Minor communication utilities, except  
    freestanding transmission towers.  
  
    * * *  
  
          Section 25.  Subsections B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, and L of  
    Section 23.60.780 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was  
    last amended by Ordinance 120927, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.780  Uses permitted outright on waterfront lots in the UG  
    Environment  
  
    * * *  
  
          B.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Personal and household retailGeneral  
    sales and services,  
  
                2.  Medical services,  
  
                3.  Animal servicesshelters and kennels,  
  
                4.  Marine retailsales and services,  
  
                5.  Eating and drinking establishments,  
  
                6.  NonhouseholdHeavy sales and service uses,  
  
                7.  Office uses,  
  
                8.  Entertainment uses,  
  
                9.  Research and development laboratories,  
  
                10.  Food processing and craft work uses;Wholesale  
    showroom,  
  
          C.  Storage usesmini-warehouse, warehouse and outdoor  
    storage,  
  
          D.  The following transportation facilities:  
  
  
                10.  Passenger terminals, water-dependent or  
    water-related,  
  
                211.  Cargo terminals, water-dependent or water-  
    related, and  
  
                12.  Research and development laboratories;  
  
          EC.  Streets;  
  
          FD.  Bridges;  
  
          GE.  Railroads;  
  
          HF.  The following utilities:  
  
                1.  Utility lines,  
  
                2.  Utility service uses whose operations require a  
    shoreline location,  
  
                3.  Solid waste transfer stations that are water-related,  
    and  
  
                4.  Minor communication utilities, except freestanding  
    transmission towers;  
  
          GI.  Manufacturing uses;  
  
          HJ.  Institutional uses;  
  
          IL.  Public Facilities;  
  
          JM.  Parks and Open space uses; and  
  
          KN.  Aquaculture.; and  
  
          L.  Food processing and craft work uses.  
  
          Section 26.  Subsections B, C, and D of Section 23.60.786 of  
    the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by  
    Ordinance 120927, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.786  Prohibited principal uses on waterfront lots in the UG  
    Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          B.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Automotive retailsales and service uses,  
  
                2.  Lodging uses,  
  
                3.  Mortuary services;,  
  
          C.  The following transportation facilities:  
  
                41.  Parking, principal uses,  
  
                52.  Personal transportation services,  
  
                63.  Passenger terminals, non-water-  
    dependent,  
  
                74.  Cargo terminals, non-water-dependent,  
  
                85.  Transit vehicleBus bases,  
  
                96.  Helistops,  
  
                107.  Heliports, and  
  
                118.  Airports, land-based;  
  
          C.  Salvage and recycling uses;  
  
          D.  The following utilities:  
  
                1.  Major communication utility,  
  
                2.  Solid waste transfer stationsmanagement,  
    non-water-dependent,  
  
                3.  Recycling uses,  
  
                4.  Power plants,  
  
                45.  Sewage treatment plants, and  
  
                56.  Freestanding transmission towers for minor  
    communication utilities;  
  
    * * *  
  
          Section 27.  Subsection A of Section 23.60.788 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113466,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.788  Permitted uses on upland lots in the UG Environment.  
  
          The following uses are permitted on upland lots in the UG  
    Environment:  
  
          A.  Uses Permitted Outright.  
  
                1.  Uses permitted outright on waterfront lots are  
    permitted outright on upland lots.  
  
                2.  Additional commercialuses permitted outright:  
  
                      a.  Automotive retailsales and services; and  
  
                      b.  Parking, principal use.  
  
    * * *  
  
          Section 28.  Subsections B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, and K of  
    Section 23.60.840 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was  
    last amended by Ordinance 120927, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.840  Uses permitted outright on waterfront lots in the UI  
    Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          B.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Marine retailsales and services except   
    marinas andsale of boat parts or accessories,  
  
                2.  Tugboat services,  
  
                32.  Research and development laboratories,  
  
                43.  Wholesale showrooms, and  
  
                4.  Food processing and craft work, water-dependent or  
    water-related;  
  
  
          C.  The following Storage uses:  
  
  
                1.  wWarehouses, and  
  
                2.  oOutdoor storage uses;,  
  
          D.  The following transportation facilities:  
  
                1.  Tugboat services,  
  
  
                2.  Commercial moorage,  
  
  
                3.  Dry boat storage,  
  
  
                54.  Passenger terminals, water-dependent or  
    water-related, and  
  
                65.  Cargo terminals, water-dependent or water-  
    related;, and  
  
                7.  Food processing and craft work, water-dependent  
    or water-related;  
  
          C.  Salvage and recycling uses, water-dependent or water-  
    related;  
  
  
          DE.  Streets, railroads and bridges;  
  
          EF.  The following utilities:  
  
                1.  Utility lines,  
  
                2.  Solid waste management usestransfer stations  
    , water-dependent or water-related,  
  
                3.  Recycling uses, water-dependent or water-related,  
  
                4.  Utility service uses whose operations require a  
    shoreline location, and  
  
                45.  Minor communication utilities, except  
    freestanding transmission towers;  
  
          FG.  Manufacturing uses;  
  
          GH.  The following institutional uses:  
  
                1.  Water-dependent or water-related research and  
    education facilities of colleges and universities,  
  
                2.  Shoreline recreation facilities of colleges and  
    universities, and  
  
                3.  Water-dependent or water-related colleges, institutes  
    for advanced study, and vocational schools;  
  
          HI.  High-impact uses, water-dependent or water-related;  
  
          IK.  Public facilities, water-dependent or water-related;  
  
          JL.  Shoreline recreation uses; and  
  
          KM.  Aquaculture.  
  
          Section 29.  Subsection B of Section 23.60.844 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119971,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.844  Conditional uses on waterfront lots in the UI  
    Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          B.  Non-water-dependent Commercial Uses.  
  
                1.  The following non-water-dependent commercial uses  
    when meeting the criteria of subsection B2:  
  
                      a.  Sale of boat parts or accessories;  
  
                      b.  Personal and household retailGeneral  
    sales and services;  
  
                      c.  Eating and drinking establishments in the  
    Ballard Interbay Northend Manufacturing/Industrial Center;  
  
                      d.  NonhouseholdHeavy sales and  
    services except commercial laundries and wholesale showrooms;  
  
                      e.  Offices;  
  
                      f.  Mini-warehouse in the Ballard Interbay Northend  
    Manufacturing/Industrial Center; and  
  
                      g.  Food processing and craft work.  
  
                2.  The uses listed in subsection B1 are permitted when:  
  
                      a.  The total of non-water-dependent commercial  
    uses occupy no more than ten (10) percent of the dry-land portion of  
    the lot; and  
  
                      b.  The non-water-dependent commercial uses are  
    located to accommodate any water-dependent or water-related uses on  
    the lot.  
  
                3.  The uses identified in subsection B1 may be relocated  
    on a lot provided the requirements of subsection B2 are met.  
  
          Section 30.  Subsections B, C, and D of Section 23.60.848 of  
    the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by  
    Ordinance 120927, is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.848  Principal uses prohibited on waterfront lots in the UI  
    Environment.  
  
    * * *  
  
          B.  The following commercial uses:  
  
                1.  Medical services,  
  
                2.  Animal services shelters and kennels,  
  
                3.  Pet grooming,  
  
                34.  Automotive retailsales and  
    service,  
  
                4.  Parking, principal use,  
  
                5.  Lodging,  
  
                6.  Mortuary services,  
  
                76.  Heavy commercial services,  
  
                87.  Entertainment uses, and  
  
                8.  Eating and drinking establishments in the Duwamish  
    Manufacturing/Industrial Center;  
  
  
          C.  The following transportation facility uses:  
  
  
                1.  Parking, principal use,  
  
  
                92.  Personal transportation services,  
  
                103.  Passenger terminal, non-water-  
    dependent,  
  
                114.  Cargo terminal, non-water-dependent,  
  
                125.  Transit vehicle bases,  
  
                136.  Helistops,  
  
                147.  Heliports,;  
  
          D.  15.Mini-warehouses in the Duwamish  
    Manufacturing/Industrial Center;, and  
  
                16.  Eating and drinking establishments in the  
    Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center;  
  
          C.  Salvage and recycling uses, non-water-dependent;  
  
          FD.  The following utilities:  
  
                1.  Major communication utilities,  
  
                2.  Solid waste managementtransfer stations,  
    non-water-dependent,  
  
                3.  Recycling uses, non-water-dependent,  
  
                34.  Power plants,  
  
                45.  Sewage treatment plants, located outside of  
    the Duwamish area, and  
  
                56.  Freestanding transmission towers for minor  
    communication utilities;  
  
    * * *  
  
          Section 31.  Subsection A Section 23.60.850 of the Seattle  
    Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113466,  
    is amended as follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.850  Permitted uses on upland lots in the UI Environment.  
  
          A.  Uses Permitted Outright.  
  
                1.  Principal and accessory uses permitted outright on  
    waterfront lots in the UI Environment are permitted outright on  
    upland lots.  
  
                2.  Additional uses permitted outright:  
  
                      a.  All commercial uses;  
  
                      b.  Salvage and recyclingSolid waste  
    management uses that are non-water-dependent, except for solid  
    waste transfer stations;  
  
                      c.  Recycling uses, non-water-dependent;  
  
                      c.  Parks and Open space uses;  
  
                      d.  The following institutions:  
  
                            (1)  Vocational and fine arts schools,  
  
                            (2)  Uses connected to a major institution  
    and permitted by an approved master plan;  
  
                      e.  All agricultural uses.  
  
    * * *  
  
          Section 32.  Section 23.60.900 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113466, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.900  Definitions generally.  
  
          For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are  
    defined.  The definitions established in this Subchapter XVI are in  
    addition to definitions contained in Chapters 24.08 and 23.84A,  
    which are also applicable to this chapter. In the event that a  
    definition in this chapter differs from a definition of the same term  
    in Chapter 24.08 or Chapter 23.84A, the definition in this  
    chapter shall apply in the Shoreline District.  
  
          Section 33.  Section 23.60.902 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 121477, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.902  "A."  
  
    * * *  
  
          "Agriculture use" means the following uses as defined in  
    Chapter 23.84A, Definitions:  
  
          Animal husbandry;  
  
          Aquaculture;  
  
          Horticultureal use.  
  
    * * *  
  
          Section 34.  Section 23.60.906 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 120927, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.906  "C."  
  
    * * *  
  
          "Commercial use" means the following uses as defined in Chapter  
    23.84A, Definitions:  
  
           --   RetailGeneral sales and services;  
  
          --   Principal use parking;  
  
           --   NonhouseholdHeavy sales and services;  
  
           --   Eating and drinking establishments;  
  
           --   Lodging;  
  
  
           --   Offices;  
  
           --   Entertainment;  
  
           --   Automotive Sales and Services;  
  
           --   Marine Sales and Services;  
  
  
           --   Animal shelters and kennels;  
  
  
           --   Wholesale showroom;  
  
           --   Warehouse;  
  
  
           --   Mini-warehouse;  
  
  
           --   Outdoor storage;  
  
  
       --   Transportation facilities;  
  
           --   Food processing and craft work;  
  
           --   Medical services;  
  
     --   Research and development laboratories.  
  
          "Commercial moorage" means a marine retail sales and service  
     parking and moorage use in which a system of piers, buoys,  
    or floats is used to provide moorage, primarily for commercial  
    vessels, except barges, for sale or rent, usually on a monthly or  
    yearly basis. Minor vessel repair, haulout, dry boat storage, tugboat  
    dispatch offices, and other services are also often accessory to or  
    associated with the use.  
  
          Communication Devices and Utilities (and Related Terms). See  
    Section 23.84A.006 "C."  
  
          "Conditional use" means a use identified in this chapter as  
    requiring specific approval by either the Department of Ecology  
    (Shoreline Conditional Use) or the City Council (Council Conditional  
    Use). Unless specifically stated in this chapter the term  
    "conditional use" without modification shall mean Shoreline  
    Conditional Use.  
  
          Section 35.  Section 23.60.908 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 121276, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.908 "D."  
  
    * * *  
  
          "Dry boat storageof boats" means a parking and  
    moorage marine retail sales and serviceuse, in which space  
    on a lot on dry land or inside a building over-water or on dry land,  
    is rented or sold to the public or to members of a yacht, boat or  
    beach club for the purpose of storing boats. Sometimes referred to as  
    dry moorage.  
  
          Section 36.  Section 23.60.918 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by ordinance 113466, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.918  "I."  
  
          "Institutions" means the following uses as defined in Chapter  
    23.84A, Definitions:  
  
       --   Institute for advanced study;  
  
           --   Private club;  
  
           --   Day care center;  
  
           --   Museum;  
  
           --   School, elementary or secondary;  
  
           --   College;  
  
           --   Community club and center;  
  
       --   Community club;  
  
           --   Vocational or fine arts school;  
  
           --   Hospital;  
  
           --   Religious facility.;  
  
           --   University.  
  
          Section 37.  Section 23.60.926 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113466, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.926 "M."  
  
          "Manufacturing" means the following uses as defined in Chapter  
    23.84A, Definitions:  
  
           --   Light manufacturing;  
  
           --   General manufacturing;  
  
           --   Heavy manufacturing.  
  
          "Marina, recreational" means a marine retail sales and  
    service parking and moorage use, in which a system of piers,  
    buoys, or floats is used to provide moorage, primarily for pleasure  
    craft, for sale or rent, usually on a monthly or yearly basis.  Minor  
    vessel repair, haulout, dry boat storage and other services are also  
    often accessory to or associated with the use.  
  
          "Marine retailsales and service" means a retail sales  
    and servicecommercial use which includes one (1) or more of  
    the following uses:  
  
           --   Sale or rental of large boats;  
  
           --   Marine service station;  
  
           --   Major or minor vessel repair;  
  
          --   Sale of boat parts or accessories.;  
  
           --   Recreational marina;  
  
           --   Commercial moorage;  
  
  
           --   Dry storage of boats;  
  
  
           --   Tugboat services.  
  
          "Marine service station" means a marine retailsales and  
    service use in which fuel for boats is sold, and where accessory uses  
    including but not limited to towing or minor vessel repair may also  
    be provided.  
  
    * * *  
  
          Section 38.  Section 23.60.934 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118793, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.934  "R."  
  
    * * *  
  
          "Residential use" means the following uses as defined in  
    Chapter 23.84A, Definitions:  
  
          --   Artist's studio/dwelling;  
  
     --   Boarding house;  
  
     --   Caretaker's quarters;  
  
     --   Floating home;  
  
     --   Mobile home park;  
  
     --   Multifamily structure;  
  
     --   Single-family dwelling unit;  
  
     --   Congregate residence.  
  
    * * *  
  
          "Retail sales and service use" means the following uses, as  
    defined in Chapter 23.84, Definitions:  
  
     --   Personal and household retail sales and service;  
  
  
     --   Medical services;  
  
  
     --   Animal services;  
  
  
     --   Automobile retail sales and service;  
  
  
     --   Marine retail sales and service;  
  
  
     --   Eating and drinking establishments;  
  
  
     --   Lodging;  
  
  
     --   Mortuary services.  
  
          Section 39.  Section 23.60.936 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118793, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.936  "S."  
  
          "Sale and/or rental of large boats" means a marine retail  
    sales and service use in which boats sixteen (16) feet or more in  
    length are rented or sold. The sale or rental of smaller boats shall  
    be defined as a major durables sales and service use.  
  
          "Sale of boat parts or accessories" means a marine retail  
    sales and service use in which goods are rented or sold primarily  
    for use on boats and ships but excluding uses in which fuel for boats  
    and ships is the primary item sold. Examples of goods sold include  
    navigational instruments, marine hardware and paints, nautical  
    publications, nautical clothing such as foul-weather gear, marine  
    engines, and boats less than sixteen (16) feet in length.  
  
          "Salvage and recycling" means the following uses, as defined  
    in Chapter 23.84, Definitions:  
  
           --   Recycling collection station;  
  
  
           --   Recycling center;  
  
  
           --   Salvage yard.  
  
    * * *  
  
          Section 40.  Section 23.60.938 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113466, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.938  "T."  
  
          "Transportation facilities" means the following uses as defined  
    in Chapter 23.84A, Definitions:  
  
     --   Rail transit facilities;  
  
     --   Vehicle storage and maintenance;  
  
  
     --   Air transportation facilities;  
  
  
     --   Airport, land-based;  
  
     --   Cargo terminal;  
  
     --   Heliport;  
  
     --   Helistop;  
  
     --   Passenger terminal;  
  
     --   Parking and moorage; and  
  
     --   Tugboat services.  
  
  
     --   Personal transportation services;  
  
     --   Transit vehicle base.  
  
          "Tugboat services" means a retail sales and service  
    transportation facility use which consists of moorage for more  
    than one (1) tugboat and dispatch offices.  Uses which include barge  
    moorage and loading and unloading facilities for barges as well as  
    tugboat moorages shall be classified as cargo terminals.  
  
          Section 41.  Section 23.60.940 of the Seattle Municipal Code,  
    which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118793, is amended as  
    follows:  
  
    SMC 23.60.940  "U."  
  
    * * *  
  
          "Utilities" means the following uses as defined in Chapter  
    23.84A, Definitions:  
  
     --   Communication utility;  
  
     --   Utility service use;  
  
     --   Solid waste managementtransfer station;  
  
     --   Recycling;  
  
     --   Sewage treatment plant;  
  
     --   Power plant;  
  
     --   Solid waste processing facility;  
  
  
     --   Solid waste incineration facility.  
  
    Section 42.  Chapter 23.84 of the Seattle Municipal Code is repealed.  
  
          Section 43.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared to  
    be separate and severable.  The invalidity of any particular  
    provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.  
  
          Section 44.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force  
    on whichever is the later of:  the effective date of approval and  
    adoption by the Department of Ecology; or thirty (30) days from and  
    after passage and approval if approved by the Mayor, or, if not  
    approved, at the time it shall have become a law under the provisions  
    of the City Charter.  
  
      Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and  
    signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  
    _____ day of __________, 2005.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                President __________of the City Council  
  
      Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.  
  
                _________________________________  
  
                Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor  
  
      Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.  
  
                ____________________________________  
  
          City Clerk  
  
    (Seal)  
  
    Jory Phillips/JP  
  
    Shoreline ordinance.doc  
  
    May 17, 2005  
  
    version #2  
  
    49  
